一一对应	yi	ying	one-to-one correspondence
一一映射	yi	she	(math.) bijective map
一丁不识	yi	shi	(idiom) illiterate
一丁点	yi	dian	a tiny bit
一下儿	yi	r	erhua form of 一下[yi1 xia4]
一下子	yi	zi	once; one time; (following a verb) for a moment; briefly; for a little while; in no time; almost immediately
一不做二不休	yi	xiu	lit. either don't do it, or don't rest (idiom); fig. if you do it at all, you may as well go the whole hog; in for a penny, in for a pound
一不小心	yi	xin	to be a little bit careless; to have a moment of inattentiveness; accidentally
一丘之貉	yi	he	jackals of the same tribe (idiom); fig. They are all just as bad as each other.
一东一西	yi	xi	far apart
一丝一毫	yi	hao	one thread, one hair (idiom); a tiny bit; an iota
一丝不挂	yi	gua	not wearing one thread (idiom); absolutely naked; without a stitch of clothing; in one's birthday suit
一丝不苟	yi	gou	not one thread loose (idiom); strictly according to the rules; meticulous; not one hair out of place
一丢丢	yi	diu	(coll.) a tiny bit
一个个	yi	ge	a number of; each and every one; one by one; one after another
一个中国政策	yi	ce	one-China policy
一个人	yi	ren	by oneself (without assistance); alone (without company)
一个劲	yi	jin	continuously; persistently; incessantly
一个劲儿	yi	r	erhua variant of 一個勁|一个劲[yi1 ge4 jin4]
一个半	yi	ban	one and a half
一个天南一个地北	yi	bei	to live miles apart
一个头两个大	yi	da	(coll.) to feel as though one's head could explode (Tw)
一个将军一个令	yi	ling	lit. one general, one order (idiom); fig. every boss has their own rules; everyone has their own way of doing things
一个巴掌拍不响	yi	xiang	lit. one palm alone cannot clap (proverb); fig. it takes two persons to start a dispute; it takes two to tango
一个接一个	yi	ge	one by one; one after another
一个样	yi	yang	the same; of the same type
一个萝卜一个坑	yi	keng	lit. every turnip to its hole (idiom); fig. each person has his own position; each to his own
一中一台	yi	tai	"one China, one Taiwan" – the notion that China and Taiwan are separate political entities
一中原则	yi	ze	One-China principle, the official doctrine that Taiwan is a province of China
一举一动	yi	dong	(idiom) every movement; each and every move
一举两得	yi	de	(lit.) one action, two gains (idiom); (fig.) two birds with one stone
一举成功	yi	gong	success at one go; to succeed at the first attempt
一举成名	yi	ming	(idiom) to become famous in one stroke; to shoot to fame (originally referred to passing the imperial examination)
一举手一投足	yi	zu	every little move; every single movement
一之为甚	yi	shen	once is more than enough (idiom)
一之谓甚	yi	shen	see 一之為甚|一之为甚[yi1 zhi1 wei2 shen4]
一了百了	yi	liao	(idiom) once the main problem is solved, all troubles are solved; death ends all one's troubles
一事无成	yi	cheng	(idiom) to have achieved nothing; to be a total failure; to get nowhere
一二九运动	yi	dong	December 9th Movement (1935), student protest movement calling for resistance to Japanese aggression
一二八事变	yi	bian	January 28 Incident (1932), military conflict between China and Japan in Shanghai
一五一十	yi	shi	lit. count by fives and tens (idiom); to narrate systematically and in full detail
一亩三分地	yi	di	a piece of land of 1.3 mu 畝|亩[mu3]; (fig.) one's turf
一亲芳泽	yi	ze	to get close to; to get on intimate terms with
一人得道鸡犬升天	yi	tian	(lit.) when a person attains enlightenment and immortality, even his chickens and dogs will ascend to heaven with him (idiom); (fig.) when somebody attains a position of power and influence, their relatives and friends also benefit
一介不取	yi	qu	to not even take a penny (as a bribe)
一代不如一代	yi	dai	to be getting worse with each generation
一以贯之	yi	zhi	(idiom) (of a principle, purpose etc) consistently upheld; adhered to from beginning to end
一会儿	yi	r	a moment; a while; in a moment
一传十十传百	yi	bai	(idiom) (of news etc) to spread like wildfire; to be disseminated far and wide
一体两面	yi	mian	(fig.) two sides of the same coin
一体化	yi	hua	to integrate; to unify
一侧化	yi	hua	lateralization
一倡三叹	yi	tan	variant of 一唱三嘆|一唱三叹[yi1 chang4 san1 tan4]
一元化	yi	hua	integration; integrated; unified
一元复始	yi	shi	a new year begins (idiom)
一元论	yi	lun	monism, belief that the universe is made of a single substance
一元醇	yi	chun	(chemistry) monohydric alcohol; alcohol with one hydroxyl group
一党专制	yi	zhi	one party dictatorship
一决雌雄	yi	xiong	to have a showdown; to fight for mastery; to compete for a championship
一击入洞	yi	dong	hole in one (golf)
一刀两断	yi	duan	(idiom) to make a clean break with; to have nothing more to do with
一刀切	yi	qie	lit. to cut all at one stroke (idiom); to impose uniformity; one solution fits a diversity of problems; one size fits all
一分一毫	yi	hao	(idiom) the tiniest bit
一分为二	yi	er	one divides into two; to be two-sided; there are two sides to everything
一分熟	yi	shu	rare (of steak)
一分耕耘一分收获	yi	huo	(saying) you reap what you sow
一分钱一分货	yi	huo	you get what you pay for
一分钱两分货	yi	huo	high quality at bargain price
一切向钱看	yi	kan	to put money above everything else
一切如旧	yi	jiu	everything as before
一切就绪	yi	xu	everything in its place and ready (idiom)
一切险	yi	xian	all risks (insurance)
一则以喜一则以忧	yi	you	happy on the one hand, but worried on the other
一刹那	yi	na	a moment; an instant; in a flash
一刻千金	yi	jin	(idiom) time is gold; every minute is precious
一刻钟	yi	zhong	a quarter of an hour
一力降十会	yi	hui	brute force overcomes clever tactics
一动不动	yi	dong	motionless
一劳永逸	yi	yi	to get sth done once and for all
一千零一夜	yi	ye	One Thousand and One Nights; Arabian Nights
一半天	yi	tian	in a day or two; soon
一卡通	yi	tong	the name of various contactless smart cards, notably Yikatong (mainly for public transport in Beijing) and iPASS (mainly for public transport in Taiwan)
一厢情愿	yi	yuan	one's own wishful thinking
一去不回	yi	hui	gone forever
一去不复返	yi	fan	gone forever
一去无影踪	yi	zong	gone without a trace
一反常态	yi	tai	complete change from the normal state (idiom); quite uncharacteristic; entirely outside the norm; out of character
一反往常	yi	chang	contrary to what usually happens
一发不可收拾	yi	shi	once it gets started there's no stopping it
一发而不可收	yi	shou	to be impossible to stop once started
一口价	yi	jia	fixed price; take-it-or-leave-it price
一口吃不成胖子	yi	zi	lit. you cannot get fat with only one mouthful (proverb); fig. any significant achievement requires time, effort and persistence
一口吃个胖子	yi	zi	lit. to want to get fat with only one mouthful (proverb); fig. to try to achieve one's goal in the shortest time possible; to be impatient for success
一口咬定	yi	ding	to arbitrarily assert; to allege; to stick to one's statement
一口气	yi	qi	one breath; in one breath; at a stretch
一口气儿	yi	r	erhua variant of 一口氣|一口气[yi1 kou3 qi4]
一古脑儿	yi	r	variant of 一股腦兒|一股脑儿[yi1 gu3 nao3 r5]
一句话	yi	hua	in a word; in short
一叶知秋	yi	qiu	lit. the falling of one leaf heralds the coming of autumn (idiom); fig. a small sign can indicate a great trend; a straw in the wind
一叶障目	yi	mu	lit. eyes obscured by a single leaf (idiom); fig. not seeing the wider picture; can't see the wood for the trees
一号木杆	yi	gan	driver (golf)
一号电池	yi	chi	D size battery
一吐为快	yi	kuai	to get sth off one's chest
一呼百应	yi	ying	(idiom) (of a call) to elict an enthusiastic response; to receive extensive approval
一呼百诺	yi	nuo	one command brings a hundred responses (idiom); having hundreds of attendants at one's beck and call
一命呜呼	yi	hu	to die (idiom); to breathe one's last; to give up the ghost
一命归天	yi	tian	see 一命嗚呼|一命呜呼[yi1 ming4 wu1 hu1]
一命归西	yi	xi	see 一命嗚呼|一命呜呼[yi1 ming4 wu1 hu1]
一命归阴	yi	yin	see 一命嗚呼|一命呜呼[yi1 ming4 wu1 hu1]
一品红	yi	hong	poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima)
一品锅	yi	guo	dish containing a variety of meats and vegetables arranged in a broth in a clay pot; chafing dish
一哄而散	yi	san	to disperse in confusion (idiom)
一哄而起	yi	qi	(of a group of people) to rush into action
一哭二闹三上吊	yi	diao	(lit.) to cry, then shout, then threaten suicide (saying); (fig.) to make a terrible scene; to throw a tantrum
一唱一和	yi	he	to echo one another (idiom)
一唱三叹	yi	tan	(idiom) (of literature or music) concise yet deeply evocative; inviting repeated savoring
一回事	yi	shi	one and the same (thing); one thing (as distinct from another)
一回生两回熟	yi	shu	see 一回生二回熟[yi1 hui2 sheng1 er4 hui2 shu2]
一回生二回熟	yi	shu	unfamiliar at first, but well accustomed soon enough (idiom)
一团乱糟	yi	zao	a chaotic mess
一团和气	yi	qi	(idiom) to keep on the right side of everyone (often at the expense of principle)
一团漆黑	yi	hei	pitch-dark; (fig.) completely in the dark; totally ignorant of; (fig.) grim; beyond salvation
一团火	yi	huo	fireball; ball of fire
一团糟	yi	zao	chaos; bungle; complete mess
一国两制	yi	zhi	one country, two systems (PRC proposal regarding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan)
一地鸡毛	yi	mao	complete mess; in a shambles
一场空	yi	kong	all in vain; futile
一块儿	yi	r	erhua variant of 一塊|一块[yi1 kuai4]
一塌糊涂	yi	tu	muddled and completely collapsing (idiom); in an awful condition; complete shambles; a total mess
一壁厢	yi	xiang	see 一壁[yi1 bi4]
一声不吭	yi	keng	to not say a word
一声不响	yi	xiang	to keep totally silent; noiselessly
一夔已足	yi	zu	one talented person is enough for the job (idiom)
一夕数惊	yi	jing	(lit.) one scare after another in a single night (idiom); (fig.) to live in fear
一多对应	yi	ying	one-to-many correspondence
一夜之间	yi	jian	(lit. and fig.) overnight
一夜情	yi	qing	one night stand
一夜无眠	yi	mian	to have a sleepless night
一夜爆红	yi	hong	to become popular overnight
一夜露水	yi	shui	one-night stand; ephemeral
一大早	yi	zao	at dawn; at first light; first thing in the morning
一大早儿	yi	r	erhua variant of 一大早[yi1 da4 zao3]
一大通	yi	tong	(coll.) a whole lot of ...; an endless stream of ... (used in relation to excessive or tedious amounts of talk, explanations, complaints etc)
一天一个样	yi	yang	to change from day to day
一天到晚	yi	wan	all day long; the whole day
一夫一妻	yi	qi	monogamy
一夫多妻	yi	qi	polygyny
一夫当关万夫莫开	yi	kai	(idiom) one man guarding the pass can prevent the passage of ten thousand
一失足成千古恨	yi	hen	a single slip may cause everlasting sorrow (idiom)
一头栽进	yi	jin	to plunge into; to run headlong into
一头热	yi	re	one-sided enthusiasm (abbr. for 剃頭挑子一頭熱|剃头挑子一头热[ti4 tou2 tiao1 zi5 yi1 tou2 re4])
一头雾水	yi	shui	to be confused; to be baffled
一如往常	yi	chang	as usual
一如所料	yi	liao	as expected
一如既往	yi	wang	(idiom) just as in the past; as before; continuing as always
一妻制	yi	zhi	monogyny
一孔之见	yi	jian	(idiom) partial view; limited outlook
一字一泪	yi	lei	each word is a teardrop (idiom)
一字不差	yi	cha	(idiom) word for word; verbatim; without a single mistake or omission
一字不提	yi	ti	to not mention a single word (about sth) (idiom)
一字不漏	yi	lou	without missing a word
一字不落	yi	la	see 一字不漏[yi1 zi4 bu4 lou4]
一字不识	yi	shi	totally illiterate
一字之师	yi	shi	one who can correct a misread or misspelt character and thus be your master
一字儿	yi	r	erhua form of 一字[yi1 zi4]
一字千金	yi	jin	one word worth a thousand in gold (idiom); (in praise of a piece of writing or calligraphy) each character is perfect; each word is highly valued
一字巾	yi	jin	headband; strip of cloth worn around the head
一字纵队	yi	dui	single file
一字褒贬	yi	bian	(lit.) to dispense praise or blame with a single word (idiom); (fig.) concise and powerful wording
一字马	yi	ma	the splits (in gymnastics, dance or martial arts)
一学就会	yi	hui	to pick up (a skill) in a very short time; to take to sth like a duck to water
一家之主	yi	zhu	master of the house; head of the family
一家人	yi	ren	the whole family; (lit. and fig.) members of the same family
一家人不说两家话	yi	hua	lit. family members speak frankly with one another, not courteously, as if they were from two different families (idiom); fig. people don't need to be deferential when they ask a family member for help; people from the same family should stick together (and good friends likewise)
一家子	yi	zi	the whole family
一寸光阴一寸金	yi	jin	(saying) time is precious
一对一	yi	yi	one-to-one; one-on-one
一对一斗牛	yi	niu	one-on-one basketball game
一对儿	yi	r	a pair; a couple
一小撮	yi	cuo	handful (of)
一小部分	yi	fen	a small part; a small section
一小阵儿	yi	r	very brief period of time
一尘不染	yi	ran	(idiom) untainted by even a speck of dust; spotlessly clean; (of a person) honest; incorruptible
一展身手	yi	shou	to showcase one's talents; to display one's prowess
一山不容二虎	yi	hu	lit. the mountain can't have two tigers (idiom); fig. this town ain't big enough for the two of us; (of two rivals) to be fiercely competitive
一帆风顺	yi	shun	propitious wind throughout the journey (idiom); plain sailing; to go smoothly
一带一路	yi	lu	Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Chinese infrastructure and investment strategy launched in 2013
一带而过	yi	guo	to skate around; to skip over; to skimp
一席之地	yi	di	(acknowledged) place; a role to play; niche
一席话	yi	hua	the content of a conversation; words; remarks
一干二净	yi	jing	thoroughly (idiom); completely; one and all
一年一度	yi	du	(idiom) annual; once a year
一年之计在于春	yi	chun	the whole year must be planned for in the spring (idiom); early planning is the key to success
一年到头	yi	tou	all year round
一年半	yi	ban	a year and a half
一年半载	yi	zai	about a year
一年四季	yi	ji	all year round
一年多	yi	duo	more than a year
一年期	yi	qi	one year period (in a contract or budget)
一年生	yi	sheng	(botany) (of a plant) annual
一应俱全	yi	quan	with everything needed available
一式二份	yi	fen	in duplicate
一弹指顷	yi	qing	a snap of the fingers (idiom); in a flash; in the twinkling of an eye
一往情深	yi	shen	deeply attached; devoted
一往无前	yi	qian	to advance courageously (idiom); to press forward
一往直前	yi	qian	see 一往無前|一往无前[yi1 wang3 wu2 qian2]
一心一德	yi	de	of one heart and one mind (idiom)
一心一意	yi	yi	concentrating one's thoughts and efforts; single-minded; bent on
一心二用	yi	yong	to do two things at once (idiom); to multitask; to divide one's attention
一心多用	yi	yong	to multitask
一念之差	yi	cha	momentary slip; false step; ill-considered action
一惊一乍	yi	zha	frightened; flustered
一意孤行	yi	xing	obstinately clinging to one's course (idiom); willful; one's own way
一成不变	yi	bian	(idiom) immutable; impervious to change; set in stone
一房一厅	yi	ting	one bedroom and one living room
一手交钱一手交货	yi	huo	lit. one hand exchanges the cash, the other the goods (idiom); fig. to pay for what you want in cash; simple and direct transaction
一手包办	yi	ban	to take care of a matter all by oneself; to run the whole show
一手遮天	yi	tian	lit. to hide the sky with one hand; to hide the truth from the masses
一扫而光	yi	guang	see 一掃而空|一扫而空[yi1 sao3 er2 kong1]
一扫而空	yi	kong	(idiom) to make a clean sweep of; to clean out
一技之长	yi	chang	proficiency in a particular field (idiom); skill in a specialized area (idiom)
一把好手	yi	shou	expert; dab hand
一把屎一把尿	yi	niao	to have endured all sorts of hardships (to raise one's children) (idiom)
一把年纪	yi	ji	to be getting on in years; an advanced age
一把手	yi	shou	working hand; member of a work team; participant; the boss (short form of 第一把手[di4 yi1 ba3 shou3])
一把抓	yi	zhua	to attempt all tasks at once; to manage every detail regardless of its importance
一把死拿	yi	na	stubborn; inflexible
一把眼泪一把鼻涕	yi	ti	with one's face covered in tears (idiom)
一把钥匙开一把锁	yi	suo	One key opens one lock.; There is a different solution for each problem. (idiom)
一抓一大把	yi	ba	(coll.) to be a dime a dozen; easy to come by
一抿子	yi	zi	a little bit
一拍两散	yi	san	(of marriage or business partners) to break up; to separate
一拍即合	yi	he	lit. to be together from the first beat (idiom); to hit it off; to click together
一拥而上	yi	shang	to swarm around; flocking (to see)
一拥而入	yi	ru	to swarm in (of people etc) (idiom)
一拨儿	yi	r	group of people
一挥而就	yi	jiu	to finish (a letter, a painting) at a stroke
一探究竟	yi	jing	to check out; to investigate
一推六二五	yi	wu	1 divided by 16 is 0.0625 (abacus rule); (fig.) to deny responsibility; to pass the buck
一掬同情之泪	yi	lei	to shed tears of sympathy (idiom)
一掷千金	yi	jin	lit. stake a thousand pieces of gold on one throw (idiom); to throw away money recklessly; extravagant
一揽子	yi	zi	all-inclusive; undiscriminating
一改再改	yi	gai	to change (sth) repeatedly
一改故辙	yi	zhe	complete change from the old rut (idiom); dramatic change of direction; a volte-face; to change old practices
一文不值	yi	zhi	worthless (idiom); no use whatsoever
一文不名	yi	ming	to be penniless
一方面	yi	mian	on the one hand
一无所动	yi	dong	totally unaffected; unimpressed
一无所有	yi	you	not having anything at all (idiom); utterly lacking; without two sticks to rub together
一无所知	yi	zhi	(idiom) not knowing anything at all; completely ignorant
一无所获	yi	huo	to gain nothing; to end up empty-handed
一无所长	yi	chang	not having any special skill; without any qualifications
一无所闻	yi	wen	unheard of
一无是处	yi	chu	(idiom) not one good point; everything about it is wrong
一日三秋	yi	qiu	a single day apart seems like three seasons (idiom)
一日三餐	yi	can	to have three meals a day
一日不如一日	yi	ri	to be getting worse by the day
一日不见如隔三秋	yi	qiu	one day apart seems like three years (idiom)
一日为师终身为父	yi	fu	(idiom) teacher for one day, father forever; students should have deep respect and lifelong gratitude for their teachers
一日之计在于晨	yi	chen	make your day's plan early in the morning (idiom); early morning is the golden time of the day
一日之雅	yi	ya	lit. friends for a day (idiom); fig. casual acquaintance
一日千里	yi	li	lit. one day, a thousand miles (idiom); rapid progress
一日游	yi	you	day trip; one-day tour
一时半会	yi	hui	a short time; a little while
一时半会儿	yi	r	a short time; a little while
一时半刻	yi	ke	(idiom) a short time; a little while
一时半晌	yi	shang	a short time; a little while
一时半霎	yi	sha	a short time; a little while
一时瑜亮	yi	liang	two remarkable persons living at the same period (as 周瑜[Zhou1 Yu2] and 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4])
一时间	yi	jian	for a moment; momentarily
一星半点	yi	dian	just the tiniest bit; a hint of
一是一二是二	yi	er	lit. one is one, two is two (idiom); fig. things are (or ought to be) perfectly clear-cut; unequivocal
一暴十寒	yi	han	variant of 一曝十寒[yi1 pu4 shi2 han2]
一曝十寒	yi	han	one day's sun, ten days' frost (idiom, from Mencius); fig. to work for a bit then skimp; sporadic effort; lack of sticking power
一月份	yi	fen	January
一望无垠	yi	yin	to stretch as far as the eye can see (idiom)
一望无际	yi	ji	as far as the eye can see (idiom)
一望而知	yi	zhi	(idiom) to be evident at a glance
一朝一夕	yi	xi	lit. one morning and one evening (idiom); fig. in a short period of time; overnight
一朝天子一朝臣	yi	chen	new emperor, new officials (idiom); a new chief brings in new aides
一木难支	yi	zhi	lit. a single post cannot prop up a falling house (idiom); fig. one is helpless alone
一本万利	yi	li	small capital, huge profit (idiom); to put in a little and get a lot out
一本正经	yi	jing	(idiom) in deadly earnest; deadpan
一杆进洞	yi	dong	(golf) hole in one
一条心	yi	xin	to be of one mind; to think or act alike
一条绳上的蚂蚱	yi	zha	lit. grasshoppers tied together with a piece of string (idiom); fig. people who are in it together for better or worse; people who will sink or swim together
一条路走到黑	yi	hei	lit. to follow one road until dark (idiom); fig. to stick to one's ways; to cling to one's course
一条道走到黑	yi	hei	to stick to one's ways; to cling to one's course
一条龙	yi	long	lit. one dragon; integrated chain; coordinated process
一条龙服务	yi	wu	one-stop service
一来二去	yi	qu	gradually; little by little; in the course of time
一杯羹	yi	geng	lit. a cup of soup; fig. to get part of the profits; one's share of the action
一板一眼	yi	yan	lit. one strong beat and one weak beats in a measure of music (two beats in the bar) (idiom); fig. follow a prescribed pattern to the letter; scrupulous attention to detail
一板三眼	yi	yan	lit. one strong beat and three weak beats in a measure of music (four beats in the bar) (idiom); fig. scrupulous attention to detail
一枝独秀	yi	xiu	lit. only one branch of the tree is thriving (idiom); fig. to be in a league of one's own; outstanding
一枪命中	yi	zhong	to hit with the first shot
一柱擎天	yi	tian	lit. to support the sky as a single pillar (idiom); fig. to take a crucial responsibility upon one's shoulders
一根筋	yi	jin	stubborn; inflexible; one-track minded
一根绳上的蚂蚱	yi	zha	see 一條繩上的螞蚱|一条绳上的蚂蚱[yi1 tiao2 sheng2 shang4 de5 ma4 zha5]
一棍子打死	yi	si	to deal a single fatal blow; (fig.) to totally repudiate sb because of a minor error
一概而论	yi	lun	to lump different matters together (idiom)
一槌定音	yi	yin	variant of 一錘定音|一锤定音[yi1 chui2 ding4 yin1]
一模一样	yi	yang	(idiom) exactly alike; identical; also pr. [yi1mo2-yi1yang4]
一次函数	yi	shu	linear function (math.)
一次又一次	yi	ci	repeatedly; over and over again
一次性	yi	xing	one-off (offer); one-time; single-use
一次总付	yi	fu	lump-sum (finance)
一次方程	yi	cheng	linear equation
一次方程式	yi	shi	(math.) linear equation
一次生两次熟	yi	shu	unfamiliar at first but you get used to it; strangers are first meeting, but soon friends; an acquired taste
一步一个脚印	yi	yin	one step, one footprint (idiom); steady progress; reliable
一步一趋	yi	qu	see 亦步亦趨|亦步亦趋[yi4 bu4 yi4 qu1]
一步到位	yi	wei	to accomplish in one step; to achieve the desired result in one go
一步登天	yi	tian	reaching heaven in a single bound (idiom); (esp. with negative: don't expect) instant success
一步裙	yi	qun	pencil skirt
一毛一样	yi	yang	(coll.) exactly alike; identical
一毛不拔	yi	ba	(lit.) unwilling to spare a single hair (idiom); (fig.) extremely stingy
一气之下	yi	xia	in a fit of pique; in a fury
一气呵成	yi	cheng	to do something at one go; to flow smoothly
一氧化二氮	yi	dan	nitrous oxide N2O; laughing gas
一氧化氮	yi	dan	nitric oxide
一氧化碳	yi	tan	carbon monoxide CO
一水儿	yi	r	(coll.) of the same type; identical
一波三折	yi	zhe	calligraphic flourish with many twists; fig. many twists and turns
一波未平一波又起	yi	qi	before the first wave subsides, a new wave rises (idiom); a new problem arises before the old is solved; many twists and turns to a story; one thing after another
一派胡言	yi	yan	a bunch of nonsense
一派谎言	yi	yan	a pack of lies
一清二楚	yi	chu	to be very clear about sth (idiom)
一清二白	yi	bai	perfectly clean; blameless; unimpeachable (idiom)
一清如水	yi	shui	lit. as clear as water (idiom); fig. (of officials etc) honest and incorruptible
一清早	yi	zao	early in the morning
一溜烟	yi	yan	like a wisp of smoke; (to disappear etc) in an instant
一潭死水	yi	shui	a pool of stagnant water; stagnant or listless condition
一灵真性	yi	xing	soul; spirit
一炮打响	yi	xiang	(idiom) to hit the jackpot with a single shot; to achieve success at one's first try
一炮而红	yi	hong	to win instant success (idiom); to become an instant hit
一点一滴	yi	di	bit by bit; every little bit
一点一点	yi	dian	little by little; bit by bit; gradually
一点不	yi	bu	not at all
一点儿	yi	r	erhua variant of 一點|一点[yi1 dian3]
一点就通	yi	tong	a hint is all that is needed; understanding each other without the need to explain
一点水一个泡	yi	pao	honest and trustworthy (idiom)
一点点	yi	dian	a little bit
一物降一物	yi	wu	lit. one object bests another object; every item has a weakness (idiom); there is a rock to every scissor, a scissor to every paper, and a paper to every rock
一犯再犯	yi	fan	to keep doing (the wrong thing)
一琴一鹤	yi	he	carrying very little luggage (idiom); honest and incorruptible (government officials)
一生一世	yi	shi	a whole lifetime (idiom); all my life
一甲子	yi	zi	sixty years
一男半女	yi	nv	(idiom) a son or daughter; a child
一病不起	yi	qi	to fall gravely ill, never to recover (idiom)
一瘸一拐	yi	guai	to limp; to hobble
一百一	yi	yi	faultless; impeccable
一盘散沙	yi	sha	lit. like a sheet of loose sand; fig. unable to cooperate (idiom)
一盘棋	yi	qi	chessboard layout; (fig.) overall situation
一目了然	yi	ran	obvious at a glance (idiom)
一目十行	yi	hang	ten lines at a glance (idiom); to read very rapidly
一直以来	yi	lai	in the past always; for a long time now; until now
一相情愿	yi	yuan	variant of 一廂情願|一厢情愿[yi1 xiang1 qing2 yuan4]
一眨眼	yi	yan	in a wink
一眼望去	yi	qu	as far as the eye can see
一眼看穿	yi	chuan	to see through something at first glance (idiom)
一着不慎满盘皆输	yi	shu	One careless move and the whole game is lost. (idiom)
一瞬间	yi	jian	split second
一矢中的	yi	di	to hit the target with a single shot; to say something spot on (idiom)
一知半解	yi	jie	(idiom) to have a superficial knowledge of a subject; to know a smattering of sth
一石二鸟	yi	niao	to kill two birds with one stone (idiom)
一碗水端平	yi	ping	lit. to hold a bowl of water level (idiom); fig. to be impartial
一神教	yi	jiao	monotheistic religion; monotheism
一神论	yi	lun	monotheism; unitarianism (denying the Trinity)
一秉虔诚	yi	cheng	earnestly and sincerely (idiom); devoutly
一穷二白	yi	bai	impoverished; backward both economically and culturally
一窍不通	yi	tong	lit. doesn't (even) enter a single aperture (of one's head); I don't understand a word (idiom); it's all Greek to me
一窝蜂	yi	feng	like a swarm of bees; in droves (used to describe people flocking to do sth)
一窥端倪	yi	ni	to infer easily; to guess at a glance; to get a clue
一站式	yi	shi	one-stop (service, shop etc)
一笑了之	yi	zhi	to laugh away (instead of taking seriously)
一笑置之	yi	zhi	to dismiss with a laugh; to make light of
一笔不苟	yi	gou	lit. not even one stroke is negligent (idiom); fig. to write characters (calligraphy) in which every stroke is placed perfectly
一笔勾销	yi	xiao	to write off at one stroke
一笔带过	yi	guo	(idiom) to mention only very briefly; to skate over (a topic)
一笔抹杀	yi	sha	to blot out at one stroke; to reject out of hand; to deny without a hearing
一笔抹煞	yi	sha	variant of 一筆抹殺|一笔抹杀[yi1 bi3 mo3 sha1]
一等一	yi	yi	(coll.) top-notch; first-rate; outstanding
一等奖	yi	jiang	first prize
一筹莫展	yi	zhan	to be unable to find a solution; to be at wits' end
一箩筐	yi	kuang	bucketloads of; in large quantities; extremely
一箭之仇	yi	chou	a wrong suffered (idiom); old grievance; previous defeat
一箭双雕	yi	diao	lit. one arrow, two golden eagles (idiom); to kill two birds with one stone
一类保护动物	yi	wu	class A protected animal
一系列	yi	lie	a series of; a string of
一级士官	yi	guan	corporal (army)
一级头	yi	tou	first stage (diving)
一级方程式	yi	shi	Formula One (motor racing)
一级棒	yi	bang	first-rate; excellent (loanword from Japanese 一番, ichiban)
一纸空文	yi	wen	a worthless piece of paper (idiom)
一线之间	yi	jian	a hair's breadth apart; a fine line; a fine distinction
一线之隔	yi	ge	a fine line; a fine distinction
一线希望	yi	wang	a gleam of hope
一线生机	yi	ji	(idiom) a chance of survival; a fighting chance; a ray of hope
一网打尽	yi	jin	lit. to catch everything in the one net (idiom); fig. to scoop up the whole lot; to capture them all in one go
一而再再而三	yi	san	again and again
一肚子	yi	zi	bellyful (of sth); full of (sth)
一肚皮	yi	pi	bellyful (of sth); full of (sth)
一股子	yi	zi	a whiff of; a taint of; a thread of
一股清流	yi	liu	(fig.) a breath of fresh air
一股脑	yi	nao	all of it; lock, stock and barrel
一股脑儿	yi	r	erhua variant of 一股腦|一股脑[yi1 gu3 nao3]
一胎制	yi	zhi	the one-child policy
一胎化	yi	hua	practice of allowing only one child per family
一脉相承	yi	cheng	traceable to the same stock (idiom); of a common origin (of trends, ideas etc)
一脸茫然	yi	ran	puzzled; bewildered
一致字	yi	zi	(orthography) consistent words (e.g. "dean", "bean", and "lean", where "-ean" is pronounced the same in each case); consistent characters (e.g. 搖|摇[yao2], 遙|遥[yao2] and 謠|谣[yao2], which share a phonetic component that reliably indicates that the pronunciation of the character is yáo)
一致性	yi	xing	consistency; coherence; uniformity
一致性效应	yi	ying	consistency effect
一般人	yi	ren	average person
一般原则	yi	ze	general principle
一般性	yi	xing	general; generality
一般来讲	yi	jiang	generally speaking
一般来说	yi	shuo	generally speaking
一般而言	yi	yan	generally speaking
一般般	yi	ban	not particularly good; so-so
一般见识	yi	shi	(idiom) to lower oneself to (sb's) level
一般规定	yi	ding	ordinary provision (law)
一般说来	yi	lai	generally speaking; in general
一般贸易	yi	yi	general trade (i.e. importing and export without processing)
一落千丈	yi	zhang	lit. to drop a thousand zhang in one fall (idiom); fig. (of business, popularity etc) to suffer a sudden, devastating decline; to take a dive
一衣带水	yi	shui	(separated only by) a narrow strip of water
一见倾心	yi	xin	love at first sight
一见如故	yi	gu	familiarity at first sight
一见钟情	yi	qing	to fall in love at first sight (idiom)
一见高低	yi	di	lit. to fight it out with sb to see who is best (idiom); fig. to cross swords with; to lock horns
一视同仁	yi	ren	to treat everyone equally favorably (idiom); not to discriminate between people
一览众山小	yi	xiao	(last line of the poem 望岳 by Tang poet Du Fu 杜甫[Du4 Fu3]) with one look I shall see all the smaller mountains down below (from the summit of Mt Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1]); (fig.) awe-inspiring view from a very high place
一览无余	yi	yu	to cover all at one glance (idiom); a panoramic view
一览无遗	yi	yi	be plainly visible
一览表	yi	biao	table; schedule; list
一觉醒来	yi	lai	to wake up from a sleep
一角鲸	yi	jing	narwhal (Monodon monoceros)
一触即发	yi	fa	could happen at any moment; on the verge
一触即溃	yi	kui	to collapse on the first encounter; to give way at once
一言一动	yi	dong	(one's) every word and deed (idiom)
一言一行	yi	xing	every word and action (idiom)
一言不发	yi	fa	to not say a word (idiom)
一言不合	yi	he	(idiom) to have a disagreement (typically leading to a quarrel or fight)
一言为定	yi	ding	(idiom) it's a deal; that's settled then
一言为重	yi	zhong	each word carries weight; a promise must be kept (idiom)
一言九鼎	yi	ding	one word worth nine sacred tripods (idiom); words of enormous weight
一言以蔽之	yi	zhi	one word says it all (idiom, from Analects); to cut a long story short; in a nutshell
一言千金	yi	jin	one word worth a thousand in gold (idiom); valuable advice; words of enormous weight
一言堂	yi	tang	(sign hung in a shop) prices fixed – no bargaining (old); having things decided by the will of a single individual; autocratic rule
一言抄百总	yi	zong	to cut a long story short
一言既出驷马难追	yi	zhui	lit. once said, a team of horses cannot unsay it (idiom); a promise must be kept
一言难尽	yi	jin	hard to explain in a few words (idiom); complicated and not easy to express succinctly
一语不发	yi	fa	to not say a word (idiom)
一语中的	yi	di	(idiom) to hit the mark with a comment; to say sth spot on
一语双关	yi	guan	to make a pun; to have a double meaning; double entendre
一语成谶	yi	chen	(idiom) to have one's words turn out to be (tragically) prophetic
一语破的	yi	di	see 一語中的|一语中的[yi1 yu3 zhong4 di4]
一语道破	yi	po	one word says it all (idiom); to hit the nail on the head; to be pithy and correct
一诺千金	yi	jin	(lit.) a promise worth a thousand pieces of gold (idiom); (fig.) a promise that can be counted on
一败涂地	yi	di	lit. defeated, the ground blanketed with bodies (idiom); fig. to suffer a crushing defeat
一贫如洗	yi	xi	(idiom) penniless; destitute
一走了之	yi	zhi	to avoid a problem by walking away from it; to quit
一跃而起	yi	qi	to jump up suddenly; to bound up; to rise up in one bound
一路上	yi	shang	along the way; the whole way; (fig.) the whole time
一路平安	yi	an	to have a pleasant journey; Bon voyage!
一路来	yi	lai	all the way; all along; since the start
一路货	yi	huo	see 一路貨色|一路货色[yi1 lu4 huo4 se4]
一路货色	yi	se	(idiom) (pejorative) as detestable as each other; birds of a feather; cut from the same cloth
一路顺风	yi	feng	to have a pleasant journey (idiom)
一路风尘	yi	chen	to live an exhausting journey
一蹴即至	yi	zhi	lit. to get there in one step (idiom); fig. easily done
一蹴可几	yi	ji	to succeed at the first try (idiom); easy as pie; one can do it at once
一蹴而就	yi	jiu	to get there in one step (idiom); easily done; success at a stroke; to get results overnight
一蹴而得	yi	de	see 一蹴而就[yi1 cu4 er2 jiu4]
一蹴而成	yi	cheng	see 一蹴而就[yi1 cu4 er2 jiu4]
一蹶不振	yi	zhen	one stumble, unable to rise (idiom); a setback leading to total collapse; ruined at a stroke; unable to recover after a minor hitch
一身两役	yi	yi	one person taking on two tasks simultaneously
一身是胆	yi	dan	devoid of fear (idiom); intrepid
一身汗	yi	han	sweating all over
一转眼	yi	yan	in the blink of an eye
一较高下	yi	xia	to compete against; to measure oneself against; to go head to head (see who is best)
一辈子	yi	zi	(for) a lifetime
一边倒	yi	dao	to have the advantage overwhelmingly on one side; to support unconditionally
一过性	yi	xing	(medicine) transient; temporary
一连串	yi	chuan	a succession of; a series of
一退六二五	yi	wu	see 一推六二五[yi1 tui1 liu4 er4 wu3]
一递一个	yi	ge	one after another
一递一声	yi	sheng	(of singers etc) one answering the other
一通百通	yi	tong	grasp this fundamental point and all the rest will follow (idiom)
一逞兽欲	yi	yu	to give way to one's beastly lust
一遍又一遍	yi	bian	over and over
一部分	yi	fen	portion; part of; subset
一醉方休	yi	xiu	to get thoroughly drunk (idiom); to get plastered
一针见血	yi	xie	lit. to draw blood on the first prick (idiom); fig. to hit the nail on the head
一钱不值	yi	zhi	(idiom) not worth a penny; utterly worthless
一钱如命	yi	ming	(idiom) stingy; penny-pinching
一锅端	yi	duan	see 連鍋端|连锅端[lian2 guo1 duan1]
一锅粥	yi	zhou	(lit.) a pot of porridge; (fig.) a complete mess
一错再错	yi	cuo	to repeat errors; to continue blundering; to make continuous mistakes
一锤子买卖	yi	mai	a one-off, short-sighted deal; a one-shot, all-out attempt
一锤定音	yi	yin	lit. to fix the tone with a single hammer blow; fig. to make the final decision
一长一短	yi	duan	(idiom) talking endlessly; long-winded
一门式	yi	shi	one-stop (service, shop etc)
一门心思	yi	si	to set one's heart on sth (idiom)
一闪念	yi	nian	sudden idea; flash of insight
一闪而过	yi	guo	to flash past; to flit by
一问三不知	yi	zhi	lit. to reply "don't know" whatever the question (idiom); fig. absolutely no idea of what's going on; complete ignorance
一阵子	yi	zi	a while; a spell; a short time
一雨成秋	yi	qiu	a sudden shower towards the end of summer brings an abrupt arrival of autumn (idiom)
一雪前耻	yi	chi	to wipe away a humiliation (idiom)
一霎时	yi	shi	in an instant
一霎眼	yi	yan	suddenly; in an instant
一霎间	yi	jian	in a flash
一面之交	yi	jiao	to have met once; casual acquaintance
一面之缘	yi	yuan	(idiom) one-time encounter (e.g. 有一面之緣|有一面之缘[you3 yi1 mian4 zhi1 yuan2] "to have met once before")
一面之词	yi	ci	one side of the story; one-sided statement
一面倒	yi	dao	to be entirely on one side; one-sided; lopsided
一颦一笑	yi	xiao	every frown and every smile
一饮而尽	yi	jin	to drain the cup in one gulp (idiom)
一饱眼福	yi	fu	to feast one's eyes on (idiom)
一马勺坏一锅	yi	guo	one ladle (of sth bad) spoils the (whole) pot (idiom); one bad apple spoils the barrel
一马平川	yi	chuan	flat land one could gallop straight across (idiom); wide expanse of flat country
一马当先	yi	xian	(idiom) to take the lead
一骑绝尘	yi	chen	(idiom) to lead the pack by a wide margin; to leave one's competitors trailing behind in one's dust
一骨碌	yi	lu	with a rolling or twisting movement; in a single movement; in one breath
一鳞半爪	yi	zhao	lit. one scale and half a claw (idiom); fig. only odd bits and pieces
一鸣惊人	yi	ren	to amaze the world with a single brilliant feat (idiom); an overnight celebrity
一黑早	yi	zao	at daybreak
一鼓作气	yi	qi	in a spurt of energy
一鼻孔出气	yi	qi	lit. to breathe through the same nostril (idiom); fig. two people say exactly the same thing (usually derog.); to sing from the same hymn sheet
丁丁炒面	ding	mian	chopped fried noodles
丁二烯	ding	xi	butadiene C4H6; biethylene
丁二醇	ding	chun	butyl glycol
丁内酯	ding	zhi	butyrolactone
丁加奴	ding	nu	former transliteration of Terengganu, Malaysia, replaced by 登嘉樓|登嘉楼[Deng1 jia1 lou2] in 2005
丁卯战争	ding	zheng	first Manchu invasion of Korea (1627)
丁卯胡乱	ding	luan	first Manchu invasion of Korea (1627)
丁型肝炎	ding	yan	hepatitis D
丁字尺	ding	chi	T-square; set square (carpenter's tool)
丁字梁	ding	liang	T-girder
丁字步	ding	bu	T-step (basic dance position, with the feet forming a T shape)
丁字街	ding	jie	T-junction
丁字裤	ding	ku	thong (underwear)
丁字镐	ding	gao	hammer pick
丁宠家庭	ding	ting	double income family who have pets rather than children (see also 丁克[ding1 ke4])
丁巳复辟	ding	bi	see 張勳復辟|张勋复辟[Zhang1 Xun1 Fu4 bi4]
丁是丁卯是卯	ding	mao	lit. to keep ding (the fourth heavenly stem) distinct from mao (the fourth earthly branch) (idiom); fig. meticulous; conscientious
丁格犬	ding	quan	dingo (Canis dingo)
丁汝昌	ding	chang	Ding Ruchang (1836–1895), commander of the Qing North China Navy
丁肇中	ding	zhong	Samuel C. C. Ting (1936-), American physicist, 1976 Nobel Prize laureate in physics
丁腈手套	ding	tao	nitrile glove
丁腈橡胶	ding	jiao	nitrile rubber
丁零当啷	ding	lang	(onom.) sound of a bell: ding-a-ling
丁青县	ding	xian	Dêngqên, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
丁韪良	ding	liang	William A.P. Martin (1827-1916), American missionary who lived 62 years in China between 1850 and 1916, and helped found many Chinese colleges, first president of Peking University
丁骨牛排	ding	pai	T-bone steak
七七事变	qi	bian	Marco Polo Bridge Incident of 7th July 1937, regarded as the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War 抗日戰爭|抗日战争[Kang4 Ri4 Zhan4 zheng1]
七七八八	qi	ba	almost; nearing completion; bits and piece
七上八下	qi	xia	at sixes and sevens; perturbed state of mind; in a mess
七上八落	qi	luo	see 七上八下[qi1 shang4 ba1 xia4]
七分之一	qi	yi	one seventh
七分熟	qi	shu	medium well (of steak)
七十七国集团	qi	tuan	Group of 77, loose alliance of developing countries, founded in 1964
七十年代	qi	dai	the seventies; the 1970s
七台河	qi	he	see 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4]
七台河市	qi	shi	Qitaihe, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
七叶树	qi	shu	Chinese horse chestnut (Aesculus chinensis)
七号电池	qi	chi	AAA battery (Taiwan equivalent: 四號電池|四号电池[si4 hao4 dian4 chi2])
七和弦	qi	xian	seventh (musical cord)
七嘴八张	qi	zhang	see 七嘴八舌[qi1 zui3 ba1 she2]
七嘴八舌	qi	she	lively discussion with everybody talking at once
七国集团	qi	tuan	G7 (Group of Seven), a forum of seven major advanced economies: Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the UK and the US
七堵区	qi	qu	Qidu, a district of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
七声音阶	qi	jie	heptatonic scale
七夕节	qi	jie	Qixi Festival or Double Seven Festival on the 7th day of the 7th lunar month; girls' festival; Chinese Valentine's day, when Cowherd and Weaving maid 牛郎織女|牛郎织女[niu2 lang3 zhi1 nu:3] are allowed their annual meeting
七大姑八大姨	qi	yi	distant relatives
七大工业国集团	qi	tuan	G7, the group of 7 industrialized countries: US, Japan, Britain, Germany, France, Italy and Canada (now G8, including Russia)
七姊妹星团	qi	tuan	Pleiades M45
七巧板	qi	ban	tangram (traditional Chinese block puzzle)
七带石斑鱼	qi	yu	Epinephelus septemfasciatus
七年之痒	qi	yang	seven-year itch
七弦琴	qi	qin	guqin or seven-stringed zither
七弯八拐	qi	guai	(idiom) twisting and turning; (idiom) tricky and complicated
七情六欲	qi	yu	(idiom) various emotions and desires
七手八脚	qi	jiao	(idiom) with everyone lending a hand (eagerly but somewhat chaotically)
七扭八歪	qi	wai	misshapen; crooked; uneven (idiom)
七折八扣	qi	kou	lit. various cuts and deductions (idiom); fig. greatly reduced; substantially scaled back
七拼八凑	qi	cou	assembled at random; a motley collection
七政四余	qi	yu	seven heavenly bodies and four imaginary stars (in astrology and feng shui)
七日热	qi	re	leptospirosis
七星关	qi	guan	see 七星關區|七星关区[Qi1 xing1 guan1 Qu1]
七星关区	qi	qu	Qixingguan, a district of Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
七星区	qi	qu	Qixing, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
七星瓢虫	qi	chong	seven-spotted ladybug (Coccinella septempunctata)
七月份	qi	fen	July
七武士	qi	shi	Seven Samurai (movie)
七河州	qi	zhou	Semirechye region of Kazakhstan, bordering Lake Balkash 巴爾喀什湖|巴尔喀什湖[Ba1 er3 ka1 shi2 Hu2]
七湾八拐	qi	guai	variant of 七彎八拐|七弯八拐[qi1 wan1 ba1 guai3]
七爷八爷	qi	ye	term used in Taiwan for 黑白無常|黑白无常[Hei1 Bai2 Wu2 chang2]
七碳糖	qi	tang	heptose (CH2O)7, monosaccharide with seven carbon atoms
七窍生烟	qi	yan	lit. spouting smoke through the seven orifices (idiom); fig. to seethe with anger
七级浮屠	qi	tu	seven floor pagoda
七老八十	qi	shi	in one's seventies (age); very old (of people)
七荤八素	qi	su	confused; distracted
七角形	qi	xing	heptagon
七言律诗	qi	shi	verse form consisting of 8 lines of 7 characters, with rhyme on alternate lines
七边形	qi	xing	heptagon
七里河	qi	he	see 七里河區|七里河区[Qi1 li3 he2 Qu1]
七里河区	qi	qu	Qilihe, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
七里香	qi	xiang	orange jasmine (Murraya paniculata); "chicken butt", popular Taiwan snack on a stick, made of marinated "white cut chicken" butt
七零八碎	qi	sui	bits and pieces; scattered fragments
七零八落	qi	luo	(idiom) everything broken and in disorder
七项全能	qi	neng	heptathlon
七鳃鳗	qi	man	lamprey (jawless proto-fish of family Petromyzontidae)
七龙珠	qi	zhu	Dragon Ball, Japanese manga and anime series
万丈光芒	wan	mang	see 光芒萬丈|光芒万丈[guang1 mang2 wan4 zhang4]
万丈高楼平地起	wan	qi	towering buildings are built up from the ground (idiom); great oaks from little acorns grow
万不得已	wan	yi	only when absolutely essential (idiom); as a last resort
万世师表	wan	biao	model teacher of every age (idiom); eternal paragon; refers to Confucius (551-479 BC) 孔子[Kong3 zi3]
万事亨通	wan	tong	everything is going smoothly (idiom)
万事俱备只欠东风	wan	feng	lit. everything is ready, all we need is an east wind (idiom); fig. lacking only one tiny crucial item
万事大吉	wan	ji	everything is fine (idiom); all is well with the world
万事如意	wan	yi	to have all one's wishes (idiom); best wishes; all the best
万事开头难	wan	nan	every beginning is difficult (idiom); getting started is always the hardest part
万事得	wan	de	Mazda Motor Corporation; also known as 馬自達|马自达
万事起头难	wan	nan	the first step is the hardest (idiom)
万事达	wan	da	MasterCard
万事通	wan	tong	jack-of-all-trades; know-it-all
万人之敌	wan	di	a match for ten thousand enemies
万人冢	wan	zhong	mass grave; common grave
万人敌	wan	di	a match for ten thousand enemies
万人空巷	wan	xiang	the multitudes come out from everywhere, emptying every alleyway (to celebrate); the whole town turns out
万代兰	wan	lan	Vanda genus of orchids
万代千秋	wan	qiu	after innumerable ages
万众一心	wan	xin	millions of people all of one mind (idiom); the people united
万儿八千	wan	qian	ten thousand or almost ten thousand
万元户	wan	hu	household with savings or annual income of 10,000 yuan or more (considered a large amount in the 1970s, when the term became established)
万全区	wan	qu	Wanquan, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
万分痛苦	wan	ku	excruciating
万劫不复	wan	fu	consigned to eternal damnation; with no hope of reprieve
万华区	wan	qu	Wanhua District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
万博省	wan	sheng	Huambo province of Angola
万变不离其宗	wan	zong	many superficial changes but no departure from the original stand (idiom); plus ça change, plus ça reste la mème chose
万古千秋	wan	qiu	for all eternity (idiom)
万古长新	wan	xin	to remain forever new (idiom)
万古长春	wan	chun	see 萬古長青|万古长青[wan4 gu3 chang2 qing1]
万古长青	wan	qing	(idiom) enduring through the ages; ever-flourishing
万国博览会	wan	hui	universal exposition; world expo
万国宫	wan	gong	Palais des Nations
万国码	wan	ma	Unicode; also written 統一碼|统一码[tong3 yi1 ma3]
万国邮政联盟	wan	meng	Universal Postal Union
万国邮联	wan	lian	Universal Postal Union (UPU)
万国音标	wan	biao	International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA)
万圣夜	wan	ye	Halloween (abbr. for 萬聖節前夜|万圣节前夜[Wan4 sheng4 jie2 Qian2 ye4])
万圣节	wan	jie	All Saints (Christian festival)
万圣节前夕	wan	xi	All Saints' Eve; Halloween
万圣节前夜	wan	ye	Halloween
万夫不当	wan	dang	lit. unbeatable by even 10,000 men (idiom); fig. extremely brave and strong
万头攒动	wan	dong	(idiom) bustling with many people
万头钻动	wan	dong	(Tw) see 萬頭攢動|万头攒动[wan4 tou2 cuan2 dong4]
万宁市	wan	shi	Wanning City, Hainan
万安县	wan	xian	Wan'an, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
万宝路	wan	lu	Marlboro (cigarette)
万家乐	wan	le	Macro (brand)
万家灯火	wan	huo	(of a city etc) ablaze with lights
万寿山	wan	shan	Longevity Hill in the Summer Palace 頤和園|颐和园[Yi2 he2 yuan2], Beijing
万寿无疆	wan	jiang	may you enjoy boundless longevity (idiom); long may you live
万寿菊	wan	ju	Aztec or African marigold (Tagetes erecta)
万山区	wan	qu	Wanshan, a district of Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
万州区	wan	qu	Wanzhou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
万年历	wan	li	perpetual calendar; ten thousand year calendar; Islamic calendar introduced to Yuan China by Jamal al-Din 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁
万年县	wan	xian	Wannian, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
万年青	wan	qing	Nippon lily (Rohdea japonica)
万应灵丹	wan	dan	panacea
万念俱灰	wan	hui	every hope turns to dust (idiom); completely disheartened
万恶之源	wan	yuan	the root of all evil
万户侯	wan	hou	Marquis (highest Han dynasty ducal title meaning lord of 10,000 households); high nobles
万托林	wan	lin	ventolin, aka salbutamol, an asthma drug
万无一失	wan	shi	surefire; absolutely safe (idiom)
万智牌	wan	pai	Magic the gathering (online fantasy game of card collecting and battling)
万有引力	wan	li	(physics) universal gravitation
万柏林	wan	lin	see 萬柏林區|万柏林区[Wan4 bai3 lin2 Qu1]
万柏林区	wan	qu	Wanbailin, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
万死不辞	wan	ci	ten thousand deaths will not prevent me (idiom); ready to risk life and limb to help out
万水千山	wan	shan	ten thousand crags and torrents (idiom); the trials and tribulations of a long journey; a long and difficult road
万泉河	wan	he	Wanquan River, Hainan
万洋山	wan	shan	Mt Wanyang between Jiangxi and Hunan
万源市	wan	shi	Wanyuan, a county-level city in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
万灵丹	wan	dan	panacea; cure-all
万灵节	wan	jie	All Saints' Day (Christian festival on 2nd November)
万用字元	wan	yuan	(computing) wildcard character (Tw)
万用表	wan	biao	multimeter
万目睽睽	wan	kui	see 眾目睽睽|众目睽睽[zhong4 mu4 kui2 kui2]
万福玛丽亚	wan	ya	Hail Mary; Ave Maria (religion)
万秀区	wan	qu	Wanxiu, a district of Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
万箭穿心	wan	xin	(lit.) to have one's heart pierced by thousands of arrows (idiom); (fig.) overcome with sorrow; (fig.) to lambaste; to rip sb to shreds
万籁俱寂	wan	ji	(idiom) dead silent
万籁无声	wan	sheng	see 萬籟俱寂|万籁俱寂[wan4 lai4 ju4 ji4]
万紫千红	wan	hong	thousands of purples and reds (idiom); a blaze of color; fig. a profusion of flourishing trades
万维网	wan	wang	World Wide Web
万能钥匙	wan	shi	master key; skeleton key; passkey
万般无奈	wan	nai	to have no way out; to have no alternative
万艾可	wan	ke	Viagra
万花筒	wan	tong	kaleidoscope
万荣县	wan	xian	Wanrong, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
万象更新	wan	xin	(in the spring) nature takes on a new look (idiom)
万贯家财	wan	cai	vast wealth
万载县	wan	xian	Wanzai, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
万那杜	wan	du	Vanuatu, country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean (Tw)
万里无云	wan	yun	cloudless
万里江山	wan	shan	lit. ten thousand miles of rivers and mountains; a vast territory (idiom)
万里迢迢	wan	tiao	(adverbial phrase used with verbs such as 歸|归[gui1] or 赴[fu4] etc) traveling a great distance
万里长城	wan	cheng	the Great Wall
万里长江	wan	jiang	Changjiang River; Yangtze River
万金油	wan	you	Tiger Balm, an ointment applied topically to treat all manner of aches and pains; (fig.) (coll.) jack of all trades
万马奔腾	wan	teng	lit. (like) ten thousand horses galloping (idiom); fig. going full steam ahead
万马齐喑	wan	yin	thousands of horses, all mute (idiom); no-one dares to speak out; an atmosphere of political oppression
万齐融	wan	rong	Wan Qirong (active c. 711), Tang dynasty poet
丈二和尚摸不着头脑	zhang	nao	lit. like a three-meter high monk, you can't rub his head (idiom); fig. at a total loss
丈二金刚摸不着头脑	zhang	nao	see 丈二和尚，摸不著頭腦|丈二和尚，摸不着头脑[zhang4 er4 he2 shang5 , mo1 bu5 zhao2 tou2 nao3]
丈八蛇矛	zhang	mao	ancient spear-like weapon 18 Chinese feet 尺[chi3] in length, with a wavy spearhead like a snake's body
丈母娘	zhang	niang	wife's mother; mother-in-law
三七二十一	san	yi	three sevens are twenty-one (idiom); the facts of the matter; the actual situation
三七仔	san	zi	(slang) pimp
三七开	san	kai	ratio seventy to thirty; thirty percent failure, seventy percent success
三七开定论	san	lun	thirty percent failure, seventy percent success, the official PRC verdict on Mao Zedong
三三两两	san	liang	in twos and threes
三下两下	san	xia	quickly and effortlessly (idiom)
三下五除二	san	er	three, set five remove two (abacus rule); efficiently; quickly and easily
三不五时	san	shi	(Tw) from time to time; frequently
三不朽	san	xiu	the three imperishables, three ways to distinguish oneself that aren't forgotten by history: through one's virtue 立德[li4 de2], one's service 立功[li4 gong1] and one's writings 立言[li4 yan2] (from the Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4])
三不沾	san	zhan	air ball (basketball)
三不知	san	zhi	to know nothing about the beginning, the middle or the end; to know nothing at all
三不管	san	guan	of undetermined status; unregulated
三个世界	san	jie	the Three Worlds (as proposed by Mao Zedong), i.e. the superpowers (USA and USSR), other wealthy countries (UK, France, Japan etc), and the developing countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America
三个代表	san	biao	the Three Represents, a set of three guiding principles for the CCP introduced by Jiang Zemin 江澤民|江泽民[Jiang1 Ze2 min2] in 2000 and enshrined in the Constitution in 2004
三个和尚没水吃	san	chi	see 三個和尚沒水喝|三个和尚没水喝[san1 ge4 he2 shang5 mei2 shui3 he1]
三个和尚没水喝	san	he	lit. three monks have no water to drink (idiom); fig. everybody's business is nobody's business; (If there is one monk, he will fetch water for himself. If there are two, they will fetch water together. But if there are three or more, none will take it upon himself to fetch water.)
三个女人一个墟	san	xu	three women makes a crowd
三个女人一台戏	san	xi	three women are enough for a drama (idiom)
三中全会	san	hui	third plenum of a national congress of the Chinese Communist Party
三九天	san	tian	the twenty seven days after the Winter Solstice, reputed to be the coldest days of the year
三五成群	san	qun	in groups of three or four (idiom)
三亚市	san	shi	Sanya, prefecture-level city in Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
三亲六故	san	gu	old friends and relatives
三人成虎	san	hu	three men talking makes a tiger (idiom); repeated rumor becomes a fact
三人行	san	xing	(slang) threesome
三人行则必有我师	san	shi	If three walk together, one of them can teach me sth (Confucius)
三人行必有我师	san	shi	lit. if three walk together, one can be my teacher (idiom, from the Analects of Confucius); you have sth to learn from everyone
三从四德	san	de	Confucian moral injunctions for women, namely: obey in turn three men father, husband and son, plus the four virtues of morality 德[de2], physical charm 容, propriety in speech 言 and efficiency in needlework 功
三代同堂	san	tang	three generations under one roof
三令五申	san	shen	to order again and again (idiom)
三件套式西装	san	zhuang	three-piece suit
三伏天	san	tian	see 三伏[san1 fu2]
三位一体	san	ti	Holy Trinity; trinity
三体问题	san	ti	three-body problem (mechanics)
三侠五义	san	yi	Sanxia wuyi (lit. Three knight-errants and five righteous one), novel edited from stories of late Qing dynasty pinghua 評話|评话 master storyteller Shi Yukun 石玉昆
三催四请	san	qing	to coax and plead
三元区	san	qu	Sanyuan, a district of Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
三元醇	san	chun	(chemistry) triol; alcohol with three hydroxyl groups
三元音	san	yin	triphthong (such as putonghua uei etc)
三光政策	san	ce	Three Alls Policy (kill all, burn all, loot all), Japanese policy in China during WWII
三克油	san	you	thank you (humorous phonetic rendering of the English phrase)
三八大盖	san	gai	(coll.) Arisaka Type 38 rifle (Japanese army rifle used 1905-1945)
三八线	san	xian	38th parallel, forming the DMZ border between North and South Korea
三八节	san	jie	International Women's Day (March 8)
三公消费	san	fei	see 三公經費|三公经费[san1 gong1 jing1 fei4]
三公经费	san	fei	"three public expenditures" of the PRC government, i.e. air travel, food and entertainment, and public vehicles
三军用命	san	ming	(of a team) to throw oneself into the battle
三农问题	san	ti	the three core challenges of rural development in mainland China (agriculture 農業|农业[nong2 ye4], rural areas 農村|农村[nong2 cun1] and farmers 農民|农民[nong2 min2]), first identified as a policy focus in the 1990s
三分之一	san	yi	one third
三分头	san	tou	regular men's haircut; short back and sides
三分熟	san	shu	medium rare (of steak)
三分球	san	qiu	(basketball) three-point shot
三分钟热度	san	du	brief period of enthusiasm; flash in the pan
三北防护林	san	lin	Green Wall of China, a massive afforestation program on the eastern margin of the Gobi Desert aimed at stopping the desert's expansion, started in 1978 and planned to be completed by 2050
三十二相	san	xiang	the thirty-two physical characteristics of Buddha
三十八度线	san	xian	38th parallel; dividing line agreed at Yalta between US and Soviet zones of influence in Korea, now the DMZ between North and South Korea
三十六字母	san	mu	thirty six initial consonants of Song phonetic theory
三十六计	san	ji	The Thirty-Six Stratagems, a Chinese essay used to illustrate a series of stratagems used in politics, war, and in civil interaction; all the possible schemes and stratagems
三十六计走为上策	san	ce	of the thirty-six stratagems, the best option is to flee (idiom); the best thing to do is leave
三十六计走为上计	san	ji	see 三十六計，走為上策|三十六计，走为上策[san1 shi2 liu4 ji4 , zou3 wei2 shang4 ce4]
三十而立	san	li	thirty years old and therefore independent (idiom, from Confucius)
三千大千世界	san	jie	cosmos (Buddhism)
三原县	san	xian	Sanyuan, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
三叉戟	san	ji	trident
三叉神经	san	jing	trigeminal nerve
三反运动	san	dong	"Three Anti" campaign (anti-corruption, anti-waste, anti-bureaucracy), early PRC purge of 1951-52
三叠纪	san	ji	Triassic (geological period 250-205m years ago)
三句话不离本行	san	hang	to talk shop all the time (idiom)
三只手	san	shou	pickpocket
三台县	san	xian	Santai, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
三叶星云	san	yun	Trifid Nebula, M20
三叶草	san	cao	clover; trefoil
三叶虫	san	chong	(paleontology) trilobite
三号木杆	san	gan	spoon (golf)
三号电池	san	chi	C size battery (PRC) (Taiwan equivalent: 二號電池|二号电池[er4 hao4 dian4 chi2]); AA battery (Tw) (PRC equivalent: 五號電池|五号电池[wu3 hao4 dian4 chi2])
三合一	san	yi	three in one; triple
三合会	san	hui	triad, Chinese crime gang; triad society, anti-Manchu secret society in Qing-dynasty China
三合土	san	tu	traditional Chinese building material made by mixing three components (typically lime, clay, and sand)
三合星	san	xing	(astronomy) triple star system
三合院	san	yuan	residence consisting of structures surrounding a courtyard on three sides
三味线	san	xian	shamisen, three-stringed Japanese musical instrument
三和弦	san	xian	(music) triad; three-note chord
三国史记	san	ji	History of Three Kingdoms (Korean: Samguk Sagi), the oldest extant Korean history, compiled under Kim Busik 金富軾|金富轼[Jin1 Fu4 shi4] in 1145. The three kingdoms are Goguryeo 高句麗|高句丽[Gao1 gou1 li2], Baekje 百濟|百济[Bai3 ji4], Silla 新羅|新罗[Xin1 luo2].
三国志	san	zhi	History of the Three Kingdoms, fourth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed by Chen Shou 陳壽|陈寿[Chen2 Shou4] in 289 during Jin Dynasty 晉朝|晋朝[Jin4 chao2], 65 scrolls
三国演义	san	yi	Romance of the Three Kingdoms by Luo Guanzhong 羅貫中|罗贯中[Luo2 Guan4 zhong1], one of the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature, a fictional account of the Three Kingdoms at the break-up of the Han around 200 AD, portraying Liu Bei's 劉備|刘备[Liu2 Bei4] Shu Han 蜀漢|蜀汉[Shu3 Han4] as heroes and Cao Cao's 曹操[Cao2 Cao1] Wei 魏[Wei4] as villains
三大纪律八项注意	san	yi	the Three Rules of Discipline and Eight Points for Attention, a military doctrine issued in 1928 by Mao Zedong for the Red Army, which included a number of injunctions demanding high standards of behavior and respect for civilians during wartime
三天不打上房揭瓦	san	wa	three days without a beating, and a child will scale the roof to rip the tiles (idiom); spare the rod, spoil the child
三天两头	san	tou	lit. twice every three days (idiom); practically every day; frequently
三天打鱼两天晒网	san	wang	lit. to fish for three days and sun-dry the nets for two days (proverb); fig. not to persevere in doing sth; to do sth by fits and starts
三头六臂	san	bi	(lit.) (having) three heads and six arms (idiom); (fig.) superhuman abilities; exceptional capability
三头肌	san	ji	triceps muscle; triceps brachii
三夷教	san	jiao	the three foreign religions that had been introduced to China by the time of the Tang dynasty: Nestorianism, Manichaeism and Zoroastrianism
三妻四妾	san	qie	(idiom) to have many wives and concubines; to have a harem
三姑六婆	san	po	women with disreputable or illegal professions (idiom)
三字经	san	jing	Three Character Classic, 13th century reading primer consisting of Confucian tenets in lines of 3 characters
三官大帝	san	di	the three gods in charge of heaven, earth and water (Daoism)
三宝太监	san	jian	Sanbao Eunuch, official title of Zheng He 鄭和|郑和[Zheng4 He2]; also written 三保太監|三保太监
三宝鸟	san	niao	(bird species of China) Oriental dollarbird (Eurystomus orientalis)
三家村	san	cun	(lit.) village of three households; the Three Family Village, an essay column in a Beijing newspaper from 1961-1966, written by Deng Tuo 鄧拓|邓拓[Deng4 Tuo4], Wu Han 吳晗|吴晗[Wu2 Han2] and Liao Mosha 廖沫沙[Liao4 Mo4 sha1], criticized as anti-Party during the Cultural Revolution
三寸不烂之舌	san	she	to have a silver tongue; to have the gift of the gab
三寸金莲	san	lian	(historical) bound foot (esp. one only three inches long, considered the ideal size of a woman's foot)
三对三斗牛	san	niu	three-on-three basketball game
三尖杉酯碱	san	jian	harringtonine (chemistry)
三尖瓣	san	ban	(anatomy) tricuspid valve
三局两胜	san	sheng	best of three
三屉桌	san	zhuo	three-drawer desk (traditional Chinese piece of furniture)
三岔口	san	kou	At the Crossroads, famous opera, based on a story from 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4]
三岛由纪夫	san	fu	Mishima Yukio (1925-1970), Japanese author, pen name of (平岡公威|平冈公威, Hiraoka Kimitake)
三峡大坝	san	ba	Three Gorges Dam on the Yangtze River
三峡水库	san	ku	Three Gorges Reservoir on the Changjiang or Yangtze
三归依	san	yi	the Three Pillars of Faith (Buddha, dharma, sangha), aka 三寶|三宝[san1 bao3]
三得利	san	li	Suntory, Japanese beverage company
三心二意	san	yi	in two minds about sth (idiom); half-hearted; shilly-shallying
三思而后行	san	xing	think again and again before acting (idiom); consider carefully in advance
三思而行	san	xing	think three times then go (idiom); don't act before you've thought it through carefully
三手病	san	bing	repetitive strain injury (resulting from frequent use of one's thumb, wrist etc)
三折肱	san	gong	(lit.) break one's arm three times (to become a good doctor); (fig.) extensive experience (esp. gained through repeated hardship)
三折肱为良医	san	yi	(lit.) break one's arm three times to become a good doctor (idiom); (fig.) experience is a good teacher
三拗汤	san	tang	san'ao decoction (TCM)
三振出局	san	ju	see 三振[san1 zhen4]
三教九流	san	liu	the Three Religions (Daoism, Confucianism, Buddhism) and Nine Schools (Confucians, Daoists, Yin-Yang, Legalists, Logicians, Mohists, Political Strategists, Eclectics, Agriculturists); fig. people from all trades (often derog.)
三文治	san	zhi	(loanword) sandwich
三文鱼	san	yu	salmon (loanword)
三无产品	san	pin	product lacking one or more of three requirements such as production license, inspection certificate, and manufacturer's name and location
三无人员	san	yuan	person without identification papers, a normal residence permit or a source of income
三无企业	san	ye	enterprise with no premises, capital or regular staff
三旬九食	san	shi	lit. to have only nine meals in thirty days (idiom); fig. (of a family) on the brink of starvation; in dire straits
三明市	san	shi	Sanming, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
三明治	san	zhi	(loanword) sandwich
三星堆	san	dui	archaeological site of Sanxingdui outside Chengdu (Sichuan), exhibiting remarkable bronze artifacts from the 11-12th centuries BC
三星集团	san	tuan	Samsung Group
三更半夜	san	ye	(idiom) in the depth of the night; very late at night
三月份	san	fen	March
三月街	san	jie	Third Month Fair, traditional festival of the Bai Nationality 白族[Bai2 zu2]
三朋四友	san	you	friends; cronies
三权分立	san	li	separation of powers
三权鼎立	san	li	separation of powers
三极管	san	guan	triode (vacuum tube or transistor)
三柱门	san	men	(sports) (cricket) wicket (set of stumps and bails)
三框栏	san	lan	radical 匚[fang1] (Kangxi radical 22)
三棱草	san	cao	sedge herb (Cyperus rotundus)
三棱镜	san	jing	(triangular) prism
三次元	san	yuan	three-dimensional; the real world (cf. 二次元[er4 ci4 yuan2])
三次幂	san	mi	(math.) cube; power of 3
三次方	san	fang	cube (third power, math.)
三次方程	san	cheng	cubic equation (math.)
三次曲线	san	xian	cubic curve (geometry)
三段论	san	lun	syllogism (deduction in logic)
三毛猫	san	mao	tortoiseshell cat; calico cat
三民主义	san	yi	Dr Sun Yat-sen's 孫中山|孙中山 Three Principles of the People (late 1890s)
三民区	san	qu	Sanmin, a district of Kaohsiung City 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
三氟化硼	san	peng	boron trifluoride
三氯化磷	san	lin	phosphorous trichloride
三氯化铁	san	tie	ferric chloride FeCl3
三氯氧磷	san	lin	phosphorous oxychloride
三氯氰胺	san	an	melamine C3H6N6
三氯甲烷	san	wan	chloroform (trichloromethane CHCl3)
三氯蔗糖	san	tang	sucralose
三水区	san	qu	Sanshui, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
三江侗族自治县	san	xian	Sanjiang Dong Autonomous County, in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
三江县	san	xian	see 三江侗族自治縣|三江侗族自治县[San1 jiang1 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
三江平原	san	yuan	Sanjiang or Three rivers plain in Heilongjiang, vast wetland watered by Heilongjiang 黑龍江|黑龙江[Hei1 long2 jiang1] or Amur, Songhua 松花江[Song1 hua1 jiang1], Ussuri 烏蘇里江|乌苏里江[Wu1 su1 li3 jiang1]
三江并流	san	liu	the Three Parallel Rivers of Yunnan Protected Areas, a region in northwestern Yunnan where three major rivers – the Jinsha River (upper Yangtze) 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1], Lancang River (Mekong) 瀾滄江|澜沧江[Lan2 cang1 Jiang1], and Nu River (Salween) 怒江[Nu4 Jiang1] – run roughly parallel to each other for over 300 kilometers, recognized as a World Heritage Site
三江源	san	yuan	Sanjiangyuan National Nature Reserve, high plateau region of Qinghai containing the headwaters of Changjiang or Yangtze, Huanghe or Yellow River and Lancang or Mekong River
三江生态旅游区	san	qu	Sanjiang Ecological Tourist Area in Wenchuan county 汶川縣|汶川县[Wen4 chuan1 xian4], northwest Sichuan
三沙市	san	shi	Sansha, prefecture-level city in Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
三河市	san	shi	Sanhe, a county-level city in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
三法司	san	si	the three judicial chief ministries (in imperial China)
三浦梅园	san	yuan	MIURA Baien (1723-1789), Japanese neo-Confucian philosopher and pioneer economist, author of The Origin of value 價原|价原[Jia4 yuan2]
三温暖	san	nuan	sauna (loanword) (Tw)
三点全露	san	lou	(slang) naked; nude
三点水	san	shui	name of "water" radical 氵[shui3] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 85)
三班倒	san	dao	three-shift system (work rostering)
三瓦两舍	san	she	places of pleasure (like brothels, tea houses etc)
三生有幸	san	xing	the blessing of three lifetimes (idiom); (courteous language) it's my good fortune...
三用电表	san	biao	multimeter
三番两次	san	ci	repeatedly (idiom)
三番五次	san	ci	over and over again (idiom)
三百六十行	san	hang	all walks of life (idiom); every trade
三皇五帝	san	di	three sovereigns 三皇[san1 huang2] and five emperors 五帝[wu3 di4] of myth and legend; the earliest system of Chinese historiography
三皇炮捶	san	chui	Pao Chui (Chinese martial art)
三相点	san	dian	triple point (thermodynamics)
三硝基甲苯	san	ben	trinitrotoluene (TNT)
三碳糖	san	tang	triose (CH2O)3, monosaccharide with three carbon atoms, such as glyceraldehyde 甘油醛[gan1 you2 quan2]
三磷酸腺苷	san	gan	adenosine triphosphate (ATP)
三秒胶	san	jiao	(Tw) superglue
三穗县	san	xian	Sansui, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
三等分	san	fen	to trisect
三等分角	san	jiao	(math.) to trisect an angle
三索锦蛇	san	she	copperhead race (Elaphe radiata), kind of snake
三级士官	san	guan	staff sergeant
三级片	san	pian	third category movie (containing sexual or violent content)
三级跳	san	tiao	triple jump (athletics); hop, skip and jump
三级跳远	san	yuan	triple jump (athletics); hop, skip and jump
三纲五常	san	chang	three principles and five virtues (idiom); the three rules (ruler guides subject, father guides son and husband guides wife) and five constant virtues of Confucianism (benevolence 仁, righteousness 義|义, propriety 禮|礼, wisdom 智 and fidelity 信)
三维空间	san	jian	three-dimensional space; 3D
三缄其口	san	kou	(idiom) reluctant to speak about it; tight-lipped
三联书店	san	dian	Joint Publishing, bookstore chain and publisher, founded in Hong Kong in 1948
三联式发票	san	piao	(Tw) triplicate uniform invoice, a type of receipt 統一發票|统一发票[tong3 yi1 fa1 piao4] issued to a business or organization with a VAT identification number or 統一編號|统一编号[tong3 yi1 bian1 hao4]
三联管	san	guan	(cell biology) microtubule triplet
三聚体	san	ti	trimer (chemistry)
三聚氰胺	san	an	melamine C3H6N6
三胚层动物	san	wu	triploblastic animals (having three germ layers)
三胞胎	san	tai	triplets
三脚两步	san	bu	hurriedly; just a few steps away
三脚架	san	jia	tripod; derrick crane
三脚猫	san	mao	sb with only rudimentary skills (in a particular area)
三自教会	san	hui	Three-Self Patriotic Movement, PRC government-sanctioned Protestant church from 1949
三自爱国教会	san	hui	Three-Self Patriotic Movement, PRC government-sanctioned Protestant church from 1949
三色堇	san	jin	pansy
三色猫	san	mao	calico cat
三色紫罗兰	san	lan	pansy
三节鞭	san	bian	three-section staff (old-style weapon)
三茶六饭	san	fan	lit. to offer three kinds of tea and six different dishes; to be extremely considerate towards guests (idiom)
三藏法师	san	shi	Buddhist monk who has mastered the scriptures; (esp.) Xuanzang 玄奘[Xuan2 zang4] (602–664)
三藩之乱	san	luan	Three feudatories rebellion against Qing 1673-1681 during the reign of Kangxi
三藩叛乱	san	luan	rebellion against the Qing of 1670s, pacified by Kangxi
三藩市	san	shi	San Francisco (California)
三角债	san	zhai	triangular debt
三角关系	san	xi	triangular relationship; (esp.) a love triangle
三角凳	san	deng	three-legged stool
三角函数	san	shu	trigonometric function
三角学	san	xue	trigonometry
三角巾	san	jin	sling (for a wounded arm)
三角带	san	dai	V-belt (a type of drive belt with a trapezoidal cross-section)
三角座	san	zuo	Triangulum (constellation)
三角形	san	xing	triangle
三角恋	san	lian	love triangle
三角恋爱	san	ai	love triangle
三角恐龙	san	long	triceratops (dinosaur)
三角旗	san	qi	triangular flag; pennant
三角板	san	ban	set square; triangle (for drawing right angles)
三角柱体	san	ti	triangular prism (math.)
三角法	san	fa	trigonometry (math.)
三角洲	san	zhou	delta (geography)
三角测量法	san	fa	triangulation (surveying)
三角肌	san	ji	deltoid muscle (over the shoulder)
三角腹带	san	dai	athletic supporter
三角裤	san	ku	briefs; panties
三角裤衩	san	cha	briefs; panties
三角铁	san	tie	triangle (musical instrument); angle iron
三角锥	san	zhui	triangular pyramid (math.)
三角龙	san	long	triceratops
三言两句	san	ju	in a few words (idiom); expressed succinctly
三言两语	san	yu	in a few words (idiom); expressed succinctly
三论宗	san	zong	Three Treatise School (Buddhism)
三貂角	san	jiao	Cape San Diego or Santiao, easternmost point of Taiwan Island
三贞九烈	san	lie	(of a widow) faithful to the death to her husband's memory
三资企业	san	ye	foreign, private and joint ventures
三足乌	san	wu	three-legged Golden Crow that lives in the sun (in northeast Asian and Chinese mythology); Korean: samjog'o
三足金乌	san	wu	three-legged Golden Crow that lives in the sun (in northeast Asian and Chinese mythology); Korean: samjog'o
三足鼎立	san	li	(idiom) to form a tripartite balance of power
三趾啄木鸟	san	niao	(bird species of China) Eurasian three-toed woodpecker (Picoides tridactylus)
三趾滨鹬	san	yu	(bird species of China) sanderling (Calidris alba)
三趾翠鸟	san	niao	(bird species of China) black-backed dwarf kingfisher (Ceyx erithaca)
三趾鸥	san	ou	(bird species of China) black-legged kittiwake (Rissa tridactyla)
三趾鸦雀	san	que	(bird species of China) three-toed parrotbill (Paradoxornis paradoxus)
三跪九叩	san	kou	to kneel three times and kowtow nine times (formal etiquette on meeting the emperor)
三蹦子	san	zi	(coll.) motorized three-wheeler
三轮车	san	che	pedicab; tricycle
三轮车夫	san	fu	pedicab driver
三边形	san	xing	triangle
三连胜	san	sheng	hat-trick (sports)
三迭纪	san	ji	variant of 三疊紀|三叠纪[San1 die2 ji4]
三道眉草鹀	san	wu	(bird species of China) meadow bunting (Emberiza cioides)
三部曲	san	qu	trilogy; (fig.) three-stage process; three-part progression
三都县	san	xian	see 三都水族自治縣|三都水族自治县[San1 du1 Shui3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
三都水族自治县	san	xian	Sandu Shui Autonomous County, in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
三酸甘油酯	san	zhi	triglyceride
三里屯	san	tun	Sanlitun (Beijing street name)
三里河	san	he	Sanlihe (Beijing street name)
三重奏	san	zou	trio (musical ensemble)
三长两短	san	duan	unexpected misfortune; unexpected accident; sudden death
三门县	san	xian	Sanmen, a county in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
三门峡	san	xia	see 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4]
三门峡市	san	shi	Sanmenxia, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
三陪小姐	san	jie	female escort; bar girl
三音度	san	du	third (musical interval)
三项全能	san	neng	triathlon
三项式	san	shi	trinomial (math.)
三顾茅庐	san	lu	lit. to make three visits to the thatched cottage (idiom) (allusion to an episode in Romance of the Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4] in which Liu Bei 劉備|刘备[Liu2 Bei4] recruits Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4] to his cause by visiting him three times); fig. to make earnest and repeated requests of sb
三马同槽	san	cao	three horses at the same trough (idiom, alluding to Sima Yi 司馬懿|司马懿[Si1 ma3 Yi4] and his two sons); conspirators under the same roof
三驾马车	san	che	troika; (fig.) three driving forces; three-person leadership structure
三魂七魄	san	po	three immortal souls and seven mortal forms in Daoism, contrasting the spiritual and carnal side of man
三鹿集团	san	tuan	Sanlu Group, Chinese state-owned dairy products company involved in the 2008 melamine poisoning scandal
上一个	shang	ge	previous one
上一号	shang	hao	(coll.) to go pee; to go to the bathroom
上一次当学一次乖	shang	guai	to take sth as a lesson for next time (idiom); once bitten, twice shy
上一页	shang	ye	preceding page
上上之策	shang	ce	the best policy; the best thing one can do in the circumstances
上下五千年	shang	nian	Tales from 5000 Years of Chinese History in three volumes by Cao Yuzhang 曹餘章|曹余章[Cao2 Yu2 zhang1]
上下其手	shang	shou	to raise and lower one's hand (idiom); to signal as conspiratorial hint; fig. conspiring to defraud
上下床	shang	chuang	bunk bed
上下文	shang	wen	(textual) context
上下文菜单	shang	dan	context menu (computing)
上下班	shang	ban	to start and finish work
上下铺	shang	pu	bunk bed
上不了台面	shang	mian	too disreputable, crude or inferior to be presented publicly or taken seriously
上不得台盘	shang	pan	see 上不了檯面|上不了台面[shang4 bu4 liao3 tai2 mian4]
上个星期	shang	qi	last week
上个月	shang	yue	last month
上了年纪	shang	ji	to be getting on in years; to be of the older generation
上位概念	shang	nian	superordinate concept
上位词	shang	ci	(semantics) hypernym
上元节	shang	jie	see 元宵節|元宵节[Yuan2 xiao1 jie2]
上党区	shang	qu	Shangdang, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
上刀山下油锅	shang	guo	lit. to climb mountains of swords and enter cauldrons of boiling oil (idiom); fig. to go through trials and tribulations
上刀山下火海	shang	hai	lit. to climb mountains of swords and enter seas of flames (idiom); fig. to go through trials and tribulations (often, for a noble cause)
上升空间	shang	jian	upside; potential to rise
上升趋势	shang	shi	an upturn; an upward trend
上半叶	shang	ye	the first half (of a period)
上半场	shang	chang	first half of a game or contest
上半夜	shang	ye	first half of the night (from nightfall to midnight)
上半天	shang	tian	morning
上半年	shang	nian	first half of the year
上半时	shang	shi	first half of a game or contest
上半晌	shang	shang	forenoon; morning; a.m.
上半身	shang	shen	the upper body
上半部分	shang	fen	upper part; top half
上厕所	shang	suo	to go to the bathroom
上发条	shang	tiao	to wind up (a watch or other clockwork mechanism)
上古汉语	shang	yu	Old Chinese (linguistics)
上合组织	shang	zhi	Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO)
上同调	shang	diao	cohomology (invariant of a topological space in math.)
上吐下泻	shang	xie	to vomit and have diarrhea
上呼吸道感染	shang	ran	upper respiratory tract infection
上善若水	shang	shui	the ideal is to be like water (which benefits all living things and does not struggle against them) (quotation from the "Book of Dao" 道德經|道德经[Dao4 de2 jing1])
上坡段	shang	duan	uphill section (of a race)
上坡路	shang	lu	uphill road; slope up; fig. upward trend
上城区	shang	qu	Shangcheng, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
上大号	shang	hao	(coll.) to defecate; to poop
上天入地	shang	di	lit. to go up to heaven or down to Hades (idiom); fig. to go to great lengths; to search heaven and earth
上天无路入地无门	shang	men	lit. there is no road to the sky, nor door into the earth (idiom); fig. to be at the end of one's rope; to be trapped in a hopeless situation
上夸克	shang	ke	up quark (particle physics)
上将军	shang	jun	top general; commander-in-chief
上层建筑	shang	zhu	superstructure
上山下乡	shang	xiang	to work in the fields (esp. young school-leavers); forced agricultural experience for city intellectuals
上市公司	shang	si	listed company
上年纪	shang	ji	(of a person) to get old
上座率	shang	lv	seat occupancy rate; percentage of available seats that are filled (in a theater, cinema, restaurant etc)
上座部	shang	bu	Theravada school of Buddhism
上弦月	shang	yue	first quarter moon
上当受骗	shang	pian	(idiom) to be duped; to get scammed
上思县	shang	xian	Shangsi, a county in Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
上扬趋势	shang	shi	upward trend; tendency to increase
上新世	shang	shi	Pliocene (geological epoch from 5m-2m years ago)
上方宝剑	shang	jian	imperial sword (giving bearer plenipotentiary powers); imperial Chinese version of 007 licensed to kill
上星剧	shang	ju	satellite television show
上星期	shang	qi	last week; previous week
上有天堂下有苏杭	shang	hang	lit. there is heaven above, and there is 蘇杭|苏杭[Su1 Hang2] below (idiom); fig. the beauty and affluence of Suzhou and Hangzhou is comparable with heaven
上有政策下有对策	shang	ce	The higher ups have policies while the lower downs have their own ways of getting around them. (idiom)
上有老下有小	shang	xiao	lit. above are the elderly, below are the young (idiom); fig. to have to take care of both one's aging parents and one's children; sandwich generation
上杭县	shang	xian	Shanghang, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
上林县	shang	xian	Shanglin, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
上栗县	shang	xian	Shangli, a county in Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
上档键	shang	jian	(computing) Shift key
上梁不正下梁歪	shang	wai	lit. If the upper beam is not straight, the lower beam will be crooked (idiom); fig. subordinates imitate their superiors' vices
上气不接下气	shang	qi	(idiom) to be out of breath; to gasp for air
上流社会	shang	hui	upper class; high society
上海交通大学	shang	xue	Shanghai Jiao Tong University
上海体育场	shang	chang	Shanghai Stadium
上海合作组织	shang	zhi	Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO)
上海外国语大学	shang	xue	Shanghai International Studies University (SISU)
上海大剧院	shang	yuan	Shanghai Grand Theater
上海大学	shang	xue	Shanghai University
上海市	shang	shi	Shanghai municipality (short name 滬|沪[Hu4])
上海戏剧学院	shang	yuan	Shanghai Theatre Academy
上海汽车工业集团	shang	tuan	Shanghai Automotive Industry Corp. (SAIC)
上海浦东发展银行	shang	hang	Shanghai Pudong Development Bank
上海环球金融中心	shang	xin	Shanghai World Financial Center (SWFC), skyscraper
上海白菜	shang	cai	baby bok choy; Shanghai bok choy
上海证券交易所	shang	suo	Shanghai Stock Exchange (SSE)
上海话	shang	hua	Shanghainese; Shanghai dialect
上海财经大学	shang	xue	Shanghai University of Finance and Economics (SUFE)
上海音乐学院	shang	yuan	Shanghai Conservatory of Music
上热搜	shang	sou	(Internet) (of a search query) to be trending
上牙膛	shang	tang	palate (roof of the mouth)
上犬式	shang	shi	upward-facing dog (yoga pose)
上犹县	shang	xian	Shangyou, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
上班族	shang	zu	office workers (as social group)
上班时间	shang	jian	working hours; office hours
上眼睑	shang	jian	upper eyelid
上眼药	shang	yao	to apply eye drops; (fig.) to speak ill of sb; to bad-mouth
上确界	shang	jie	supremum (math.); least upper bound
上等兵	shang	bing	private first class (army rank)
上箭头	shang	tou	up-pointing arrow
上箭头键	shang	jian	up arrow key (on keyboard)
上紧发条	shang	tiao	to wind the spring up tight; (fig.) to gear up; to ready oneself
上级领导	shang	dao	high-level leadership; top brass
上纲上线	shang	xian	to make a mountain out of a molehill
上网本	shang	ben	netbook
上艾瑟尔	shang	er	Overijssel, province of the Netherlands
上菜秀	shang	xiu	dinner show; dinner and floor show
上蔡县	shang	xian	Shangcai, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
上虞区	shang	qu	Shangyu, a district of Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
上行下效	shang	xiao	subordinates follow the example of their superiors (idiom)
上街区	shang	qu	Shangjie, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
上西天	shang	tian	(Buddhism) to go to the Western Paradise; (fig.) to die
上议院	shang	yuan	Upper Chamber; Upper House; Senate
上证综合指数	shang	shu	SSE (Shanghai Stock Exchange) Composite Index
上诉法院	shang	yuan	appeals court
上贼船	shang	chuan	lit. to board a pirate ship (idiom); fig. to associate with criminals
上轨道	shang	dao	to stay on track; to proceed smoothly
上辈子	shang	zi	one's ancestors; past generations; a former incarnation
上边儿	shang	r	erhua variant of 上邊|上边[shang4 bian5]
上进心	shang	xin	ambition; desire for self-improvement
上钩儿	shang	r	erhua variant of 上鉤|上钩[shang4 gou1]
上门女婿	shang	xu	live-in son-in-law; husband living with the wife's family
上门客	shang	ke	bricks-and-mortar customer; walk-in customer
上门费	shang	fei	house call fee; callout fee
上面级	shang	ji	(rocketry) upper stage
上颌骨	shang	gu	maxilla (upper jaw)
上颚正门齿	shang	chi	maxillary central incisor
上饶市	shang	shi	Shangrao, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
上馆子	shang	zi	to eat out; to eat at a restaurant
上高县	shang	xian	Shanggao, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
下一个	xia	ge	the next one
下一代	xia	dai	the next generation
下一次	xia	ci	next; coming; forthcoming; next time; the next occasion
下一步	xia	bu	the next step
下一站	xia	zhan	the next stop (of a bus etc)
下一页	xia	ye	next page
下三滥	xia	lan	riffraff; scum; lowlife
下三烂	xia	lan	variant of 下三濫|下三滥[xia4 san1 lan4]
下不为例	xia	li	not to be repeated; not to be taken as a precedent; just this once
下不了台	xia	tai	to be unable to extricate oneself gracefully; to be put on the spot; to be embarrassed
下不来	xia	lai	awkward; embarrassed; cannot be accomplished
下不来台	xia	tai	to be put on the spot; to find oneself in an awkward situation
下丘脑	xia	nao	hypothalamus (anatomy)
下个星期	xia	qi	next week
下个月	xia	yue	next month
下九流	xia	liu	the lowest professions
下位词	xia	ci	(semantics) hyponym
下决心	xia	xin	to determine; to resolve
下划线	xia	xian	underscore _; underline
下功夫	xia	fu	variant of 下工夫[xia4 gong1 fu5]
下午好	xia	hao	(greeting) good afternoon
下午茶	xia	cha	afternoon tea (light afternoon meal, typically pastries with tea or coffee)
下半场	xia	chang	second half of a game or contest
下半夜	xia	ye	second half of the night (from midnight to sunrise)
下半天	xia	tian	afternoon
下半年	xia	nian	second half of the year
下半旗	xia	qi	to fly a flag at half-mast as a sign of mourning
下半时	xia	shi	second half of a game or contest
下半身	xia	shen	lower half of one's body; Lower Body (Chinese poetry movement of the early 21st century)
下台阶	xia	jie	to extricate oneself; way out
下咽癌	xia	ai	hypopharyngeal cancer
下场门	xia	men	exit door (of the stage)
下坡路	xia	lu	downhill road; (fig.) downhill path
下夸克	xia	ke	down quark (particle physics)
下定义	xia	yi	to define
下定决心	xia	xin	to make a firm resolution
下寒武	xia	wu	lower Cambrian (geological period approx 530 million years ago)
下寒武统	xia	tong	lower Cambrian series (geological strata from approx 530 million years ago)
下属公司	xia	si	subsidiary (company)
下工夫	xia	fu	to put in time and energy; to concentrate one's efforts
下巴颏	xia	ke	chin
下弦月	xia	yue	third quarter moon, aka last quarter moon
下意识	xia	shi	subconscious mind
下旋削球	xia	qiu	(golf, tennis) undercut
下星期	xia	qi	next week
下次见	xia	jian	see you next time
下死劲	xia	jin	to do one's utmost
下毒手	xia	shou	to attack murderously; to strike treacherously
下毛毛雨	xia	yu	to drizzle; to rain lightly; (fig.) (coll.) to give (sb) a heads-up; to break (some bad news) gently; to scold mildly
下水礼	xia	li	launching ceremony
下水管	xia	guan	drainpipe
下水道	xia	dao	underground drain; sewer
下沉市场	xia	chang	the Chinese market, excluding first- and second-tier cities
下犬式	xia	shi	downward-facing dog (yoga pose)
下狠心	xia	xin	to resolve (to do sth); to toughen up
下画线	xia	xian	underline
下眼睑	xia	jian	lower eyelid
下确界	xia	jie	(math.) infimum; greatest lower bound
下箭头	xia	tou	down-pointing arrow
下箭头键	xia	jian	down arrow key (on keyboard)
下线仪式	xia	shi	product launching ceremony
下脚料	xia	liao	remnants of material from an industrial process; offcut; scraps
下腹部	xia	bu	lower abdomen
下至上	xia	shang	bottom to top
下花园	xia	yuan	see 下花園區|下花园区[Xia4 hua1 yuan2 Qu1]
下花园区	xia	qu	Xiahuayuan, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
下落不明	xia	ming	unaccounted; unknown whereabouts
下西洋	xia	yang	to sail west (from China) (used in reference to the 15th century voyages of Zheng He 鄭和|郑和[Zheng4 He2] to regions bordering the Indian Ocean)
下视丘	xia	qiu	(anatomy) hypothalamus (Tw)
下订单	xia	dan	to place an order (commerce)
下议院	xia	yuan	lower chamber (of legislative body); lower house; the House of Commons
下蹲翻	xia	fan	(weightlifting) clean; squat clean
下辈子	xia	zi	the next life
下边儿	xia	r	erhua variant of 下邊|下边[xia4 bian5]
下逐客令	xia	ling	to ask sb to leave; to show sb the door; to give a tenant notice to leave
下酒菜	xia	cai	dish that goes well with alcoholic drinks; snack eaten with drinks
下里巴人	xia	ren	folk songs of the state of Chu 楚國|楚国[Chu3 guo2]; popular art forms (contrasted with 陽春白雪|阳春白雪[yang2 chun1 bai2 xue3], highbrow art forms)
下陆区	xia	qu	Xialu, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
下颌下腺	xia	xian	submandibular salivary gland
下颌骨	xia	gu	lower jaw; mandible
下颔骨	xia	gu	lower jawbone; mandible
下飞机	xia	ji	to get off a plane; to deplane
下馆子	xia	zi	to eat out; to eat at a restaurant
下马威	xia	wei	display of severity immediately on taking office; (fig.) initial show of strength
下鼻甲	xia	jia	inferior nasal conchae
下龙湾	xia	wan	Ha Long Bay, Vietnam
不一会	bu	hui	soon
不一定	bu	ding	not necessarily; maybe
不一样	bu	yang	different; distinctive; unlike
不一而足	bu	zu	by no means an isolated case; numerous
不一致字	bu	zi	(orthography) inconsistent words (e.g. "through", "bough" and "rough", where "-ough" is not pronounced the same in each case); inconsistent characters (e.g. 流[liu2], 梳[shu1] and 毓[yu4], which are pronounced differently from each other even though they all have the same notional phonetic component)
不三不四	bu	si	(idiom) dubious; shady; neither one thing nor the other; neither fish nor fowl; nondescript
不下于	bu	yu	as many as; no less than; not inferior to; as good as; on a par with
不中意	bu	yi	not to one's liking
不中用	bu	yong	unfit for anything; no good; useless
不为人知	bu	zhi	not known to anyone; secret; unknown
不为左右袒	bu	tan	to remain neutral in a quarrel (idiom)
不为已甚	bu	shen	refrain from going to extremes in meting out punishment; not be too hard on subject
不为所动	bu	dong	to remain unmoved
不为过	bu	guo	not an exaggeration; not excessive; not wide of the mark
不为酒困	bu	kun	not a slave to the bottle; able to enjoy alcohol in moderation; able to hold one's drink
不主故常	bu	chang	not to stick to the old conventions
不久前	bu	qian	not long ago
不义之财	bu	cai	ill-gotten wealth or gains
不了了之	bu	zhi	to settle a matter by leaving it unsettled; to end up with nothing definite
不予理会	bu	hui	to ignore; to brush off; to dismiss
不予置评	bu	ping	to make no comment; "no comment"
不予评论	bu	lun	No comment!
不争气	bu	qi	to be disappointing; to fail to live up to expectations
不事张扬	bu	yang	quietly; without ostentation
不事生产	bu	chan	not to do anything productive; to idle away one's time
不二价	bu	jia	one price for all; fixed price
不二法门	bu	men	the one and only way; the only proper course to take
不亚于	bu	yu	no less than; not inferior to
不亢不卑	bu	bei	neither haughty nor humble; neither overbearing nor servile; neither supercilious nor obsequious
不亦乐乎	bu	hu	lit. isn't that a joy? (quote from Confucius); fig. (jocular) extremely; awfully
不人道	bu	dao	inhuman
不仅仅	bu	jin	not only; not just
不仅如此	bu	ci	not only that, but ...
不以为意	bu	yi	not to mind; unconcerned
不以为然	bu	ran	not to accept as correct (idiom); to object; to disapprove; to take exception to
不以人废言	bu	yan	not to reject a word because of the speaker (idiom, from Analects); to judge on the merits of the case rather than preference between advisers
不以物喜不以己悲	bu	bei	not to become attached to material things, not to pity oneself
不以规矩不能成方圆	bu	yuan	without rules, nothing can be done (idiom, from Mencius); one must follow some rules
不以词害志	bu	zhi	don't let rhetoric spoil the message (idiom); don't get carried away with flowery speech to the detriment of what you want to say
不以辞害志	bu	zhi	don't let rhetoric spoil the message (idiom); don't get carried away with flowery speech to the detriment of what you want to say
不伤脾胃	bu	wei	lit. doesn't hurt the spleen or the stomach; fig. something that is not critical
不伦不类	bu	lei	out of place; inappropriate; incongruous
不体面	bu	mian	to not appear to be decent or respectful; shameful
不作为	bu	wei	nonfeasance; omission (law)
不作死就不会死	bu	si	serves you right for doing sth so stupid (Internet slang)
不依不饶	bu	rao	not to overlook, nor spare (idiom); unwilling to forgive; to treat severely without listening to excuses
不便险	bu	xian	travel insurance covering flight delay, baggage loss etc (abbr. for 旅遊不便保險|旅游不便保险[lu : 3 you2 bu4 bian4 bao3 xian3])
不信任动议	bu	yi	motion of no confidence (against the government, in parliamentary debates)
不信任投票	bu	piao	vote of no-confidence
不信任案	bu	an	no-confidence motion
不修边幅	bu	fu	not care about one's appearance (idiom); slovenly in dress and manner
不倒翁	bu	weng	roly-poly toy
不值一文	bu	wen	worthless (idiom); no use whatsoever
不值一笑	bu	xiao	of no value; worthless
不值一驳	bu	bo	(idiom) (of an argument) not even worthy of a rebuttal
不值得	bu	de	unworthy
不值钱	bu	qian	of little value
不假思索	bu	suo	(idiom) to act without taking time to think; to react instantly; to fire from the hip
不偏不倚	bu	yi	(idiom) even-handed; impartial; unbiased
不偏斜	bu	xie	not leaning to one side; impartial; even-handed
不做声	bu	sheng	keep silent; not say a word
不偷不抢	bu	qiang	to be law-abiding (idiom)
不像样	bu	yang	in no shape to be seen; unpresentable; beyond recognition
不像话	bu	hua	unreasonable; shocking; outrageous
不儿道	bu	dao	(dialect) contracted form of 不知道[bu4 zhi1 dao4]
不光彩	bu	cai	disgraceful; dishonorable
不免一死	bu	si	cannot avoid being killed; cannot escape death; to be mortal
不入时宜	bu	yi	out of step with current thinking; outmoded; inappropriate for the occasion
不入虎穴焉得虎子	bu	zi	How do you catch the tiger cub without entering the tiger's lair? (idiom); Nothing ventured, nothing gained.
不共戴天	bu	tian	(idiom) (of enemies) cannot live under the same sky; absolutely irreconcilable
不关痛痒	bu	yang	unimportant; of no consequence
不兼容性	bu	xing	incompatibility
不冻港	bu	gang	ice-free port; open port
不准确	bu	que	imprecise
不准许	bu	xu	forbidden; not allowed
不减当年	bu	nian	(of one's skills, appearance etc) not to have deteriorated a bit; to be as (good, vigorous etc) as ever
不凑巧	bu	qiao	unluckily
不出所料	bu	liao	as expected
不分上下	bu	xia	not to know one's place
不分伯仲	bu	zhong	lit. unable to distinguish eldest brother from second brother (idiom); they are all equally excellent; nothing to choose between them
不分彼此	bu	ci	to make no distinction between what's one's own and what's another's (idiom); to share everything; to be on very intimate terms
不分情由	bu	you	indiscriminate
不分昼夜	bu	ye	day and night; round-the-clock
不分皂白	bu	bai	not distinguishing black or white (idiom); not to distinguish between right and wrong
不分系	bu	xi	to enroll without declaring one's major or department (in one's first year(s) of university)
不分胜负	bu	fu	unable to determine victory or defeat (idiom); evenly matched; to come out even; to tie
不分胜败	bu	bai	to not be able to distinguish who's winning
不分轩轾	bu	zhi	well-matched; equally matched
不分青红皂白	bu	bai	not distinguishing red-green or black-white (idiom); not to distinguish between right and wrong
不分高下	bu	xia	equally matched; not much to distinguish who is stronger
不切合实际	bu	ji	impractical; not conforming to reality
不切实际	bu	ji	unrealistic; impractical
不刊之论	bu	lun	indisputable statement; unalterable truth
不划算	bu	suan	it isn't worth it; not cost-effective; not profitable
不列颠	bu	dian	Britain; British; Great Britain
不列颠保卫战	bu	zhan	see 不列顛戰役|不列颠战役[Bu4 lie4 dian1 Zhan4 yi4]
不列颠哥伦比亚	bu	ya	British Columbia, Pacific province of Canada
不列颠哥伦比亚省	bu	sheng	British Columbia, Pacific province of Canada
不列颠战役	bu	yi	Battle of Britain (Jul-Oct 1940)
不列颠诸岛	bu	dao	British Isles
不到火候不揭锅	bu	guo	don't act until the time is ripe (idiom)
不到长城非好汉	bu	han	lit. until you reach the Great Wall, you're not a proper person; fig. to get over difficulties before reaching the goal
不到黄河心不死	bu	si	lit. not to stop until one reaches the Yellow River (idiom); fig. to persevere until one reaches one's goal; to keep going while some hope is left
不加修饰	bu	shi	undecorated; unvarnished; no frills
不加区别	bu	bie	indiscriminate
不加思索	bu	suo	see 不假思索[bu4 jia3 si1 suo3]
不加拘束	bu	shu	unrestricted
不加掩饰	bu	shi	undisguised
不加理睬	bu	cai	without giving due consideration; to ignore; to overlook
不加选择	bu	ze	indiscriminate
不务正业	bu	ye	not to engage in honest work; to ignore one's proper occupation; not to attend to one's proper duties
不动产	bu	chan	real estate; immovable property; immovables
不动声色	bu	se	not a word or movement (idiom); remaining calm and collected; not batting an eyelid
不动摇	bu	yao	unmoved
不动点	bu	dian	fixed point (of a map) (math.)
不动点定理	bu	li	fixed point theorem (math.)
不劳而获	bu	huo	(idiom) to reap without sowing; to get sth without working for it; to sponge off others
不区分大小写	bu	xie	case insensitive; not distinguishing capitals from lowercase letters
不协调	bu	tiao	uncoordinated; disharmony
不卑不亢	bu	kang	neither servile nor overbearing (idiom); neither obsequious nor supercilious
不即不离	bu	li	to be neither too familiar nor too distant; to keep sb at arm's length
不厌其烦	bu	fan	not to mind taking all the trouble (idiom); to take great pains; to be very patient
不去理	bu	li	not to pay attention to; to leave sth as it is; to ignore
不及格	bu	ge	to fail; to flunk
不及物动词	bu	ci	intransitive verb
不受欢迎	bu	ying	unwelcome
不变价格	bu	ge	fixed price; constant price
不变资本	bu	ben	constant capital
不变量	bu	liang	invariant quantity; invariant (math.)
不可一世	bu	shi	(idiom) to consider oneself unexcelled in the world; to be insufferably arrogant
不可以	bu	yi	may not
不可估量	bu	liang	inestimable; incalculable; beyond measure
不可侵犯	bu	fan	inviolable
不可分割	bu	ge	inalienable; unalienable; inseparable
不可分离	bu	li	inseparable
不可同日而语	bu	yu	lit. mustn't speak of two things on the same day (idiom); not to be mentioned in the same breath; incomparable
不可名状	bu	zhuang	indescribable; beyond description
不可告人	bu	ren	(idiom) to be kept secret; not to be divulged
不可多得	bu	de	hard to come by; rare
不可导	bu	dao	not differentiable (function in calculus)
不可少	bu	shao	indispensable; essential
不可开交	bu	jiao	to be awfully (busy etc)
不可思议	bu	yi	(idiom) inconceivable; unimaginable; unfathomable
不可或缺	bu	que	necessary; must have
不可抗力	bu	li	force majeure; act of God
不可抗拒	bu	ju	act of God; force majeure (law); irresistible (idiom)
不可挽回	bu	hui	irreversible
不可撤销信用证	bu	zheng	irrevocable letter of credit
不可收拾	bu	shi	(idiom) irremediable; unmanageable; out of hand; hopeless
不可救药	bu	yao	see 無可救藥|无可救药[wu2 ke3 jiu4 yao4]
不可数	bu	shu	uncountable
不可数名词	bu	ci	uncountable noun (in grammar of European languages)
不可数集	bu	ji	uncountable set (math.)
不可枚举	bu	ju	innumerable (idiom)
不可理喻	bu	yu	(idiom) impervious to reason; unreasonable
不可知论	bu	lun	agnosticism, the philosophical doctrine that some questions about the universe are in principle unanswerable
不可磨灭	bu	mie	indelible
不可端倪	bu	ni	impossible to get even an outline (idiom); unfathomable; not a clue
不可终日	bu	ri	to be unable to carry on even for a single day; to be in a desperate situation
不可缺少	bu	shao	indispensable
不可置信	bu	xin	unbelievable; incredible
不可胜数	bu	shu	countless; innumerable
不可胜言	bu	yan	inexpressible (idiom); beyond description
不可能	bu	neng	impossible; cannot
不可解	bu	jie	insoluble (i.e. impossible to solve)
不可言喻	bu	yu	inexpressible (idiom)
不可逆	bu	ni	irreversible
不可逆转	bu	zhuan	irreversible
不可逾越	bu	yue	impassable; insurmountable; insuperable
不可避免	bu	mian	(idiom) inevitable; unavoidable
不合体统	bu	tong	not according with decorum; scandalous; bad form
不合作	bu	zuo	noncooperation
不合时宜	bu	yi	out of step with current thinking; outmoded; inappropriate for the occasion
不合法	bu	fa	illegal
不合理	bu	li	unreasonable
不吉利	bu	li	ominous
不同凡响	bu	xiang	lit. not a common chord (idiom); outstanding; brilliant; out of the common run
不同寻常	bu	chang	out of the ordinary; unusual
不名一文	bu	wen	without a penny to one's name; penniless; stony-broke
不名一钱	bu	qian	to be penniless
不名数	bu	shu	abstract number
不名誉	bu	yu	disreputable; disgraceful
不吐不快	bu	kuai	to have to pour out what's on one's mind (idiom)
不吐气	bu	qi	unaspirated
不吝珠玉	bu	yu	(idiom) (courteous) please give me your frank opinion; your criticism will be most valuable
不吝赐教	bu	jiao	to be so kind as to enlighten me
不含糊	bu	hu	unambiguous; unequivocal; explicit
不听命	bu	ming	to disobey
不周山	bu	shan	Buzhou Mountain, a mountain from Chinese legend
不周延	bu	yan	undistributed
不咋地	bu	de	(dialect) not that great; not up to much; nothing special
不咋的	bu	de	(dialect) not that great; not up to much; nothing special
不咎既往	bu	wang	not censure sb for his past misdeeds; overlook sb's past mistakes; let bygones be bygones
不啻天渊	bu	yuan	no less than from heaven to the abyss (idiom); differing widely; worlds apart; the gap couldn't be bigger
不喜勿喷	bu	pen	(Internet slang) if you don't like it, don't flame; please don't attack me if you disagree
不圆通	bu	tong	inflexible; unaccommodating
不在乎	bu	hu	not to care
不在了	bu	le	to be dead; to have passed away
不在其位不谋其政	bu	zheng	don't meddle in affairs that are not part of your position (Confucius)
不在意	bu	yi	to pay no attention to; not to mind
不在状态	bu	tai	to be out of form; not to be oneself
不在话下	bu	xia	to be nothing difficult; to be a cinch
不堪一击	bu	ji	(idiom) unable to withstand a single blow; to collapse at the first blow
不堪入目	bu	mu	unbearable to look at; an eyesore
不堪入耳	bu	er	(idiom) (of speech, music etc) vulgar; offensive to the ear
不堪忍受	bu	shou	unbearable
不堪设想	bu	xiang	too horrible to contemplate; unthinkable; inconceivable
不声不吭	bu	keng	see 不聲不響|不声不响[bu4 sheng1 bu4 xiang3]
不声不响	bu	xiang	(idiom) wordless; silent; taciturn; without speaking
不外乎	bu	hu	nothing else but
不外露	bu	lu	not exposed; concealed from view
不大离	bu	li	pretty close; just about right; not bad
不大离儿	bu	r	erhua variant of 不大離|不大离[bu4 da4 li2]
不太好	bu	hao	not so good; not too well
不失为	bu	wei	can be regarded as; qualifies as (something positive)
不失时机	bu	ji	to seize the opportune moment; to lose no time
不好受	bu	shou	unpleasant; hard to take
不好惹	bu	re	not to be trifled with; not to be pushed around; stand no nonsense
不好意思	bu	si	to feel embarrassed; to find it embarrassing; to be sorry (for inconveniencing sb)
不好说	bu	shuo	hard to say; can't be sure; difficult to speak about; unpleasant to say
不如人意	bu	yi	leaving much to be desired; unsatisfactory; undesirable
不妥协	bu	xie	uncompromising
不孕症	bu	zheng	female infertility
不孚众望	bu	wang	not living up to expectations (idiom); failing to inspire confidence among people; unpopular
不孝有三无后为大	bu	da	there are three ways to be unfilial; having no sons is the worst (from Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3])
不学无术	bu	shu	without learning or skills (idiom); ignorant and incompetent
不安其室	bu	shi	(idiom) (of a married woman) to be unfaithful; to have extramarital affairs
不安分	bu	fen	restless; unsettled
不安好心	bu	xin	to have bad intentions
不完全叶	bu	ye	(botany) an incomplete leaf – one that lacks a lamina, petiole, or stipule
不完全归纳推理	bu	li	inference by incomplete induction
不完善	bu	shan	imperfect
不定元	bu	yuan	indeterminate element (math.), often denoted by x
不定冠词	bu	ci	indefinite article (e.g. English a, an)
不定式	bu	shi	infinitive (grammar)
不定形	bu	xing	indeterminate form
不定方程	bu	cheng	(math.) indeterminate equation
不定期	bu	qi	non-scheduled; irregularly
不定积分	bu	fen	indefinite integral (math.)
不定词	bu	ci	infinitive
不客气	bu	qi	you're welcome; don't mention it; impolite
不宣而战	bu	zhan	open hostilities without declaring war; start an undeclared war
不容小觑	bu	qu	(idiom) not to be underestimated; not to be taken lightly
不容置疑	bu	yi	unquestionable
不容置辩	bu	bian	peremptory; not to be denied; not brooking argument
不寒而栗	bu	li	lit. not cold, yet shivering (idiom); fig. to tremble with fear; to be terrified
不对劲	bu	jin	not right; amiss; to feel uncomfortable or unwell; to not get along
不对劲儿	bu	r	erhua form of 不對勁|不对劲[bu4 dui4 jin4]
不对头	bu	tou	fishy; not right; amiss
不对盘	bu	pan	(of a person) objectionable; (of two people) to find each other disagreeable
不对碴儿	bu	r	not proper; not fit for the occasion
不对称	bu	chen	unsymmetrical; asymmetric
不尽根	bu	gen	surd (math.)
不尽然	bu	ran	not always; not entirely; not necessarily so; not entirely correct
不屈不挠	bu	nao	unyielding; indomitable
不屑一顾	bu	gu	to disdain as beneath contempt (idiom)
不带电	bu	dian	uncharged; electrically neutral
不干不净	bu	jing	unclean; filthy; foul-mouthed
不干不净吃了没病	bu	bing	a little dirt never killed anybody (proverb); a couple of germs won't do you any harm
不干涉	bu	she	noninterference; nonintervention
不平凡	bu	fan	marvelous; marvelously
不平则鸣	bu	ming	where there is injustice, there will be an outcry; man will cry out against injustice
不平常	bu	chang	remarkable; remarkably; unusual
不平等	bu	deng	inequality; unfairness
不平等条约	bu	yue	(term coined c. 1920s) unequal treaty – a treaty between China and one or more aggressor nations (including Russia, Japan and various Western powers) which imposed humiliating conditions on China (in the 19th and early 20th centuries)
不平衡	bu	heng	disequilibrium
不幸之事	bu	shi	mishap
不幸之幸	bu	xing	a fortune in misfortune; a positive in the negative
不幸言中	bu	zhong	to turn out just as one predicted or feared
不应期	bu	qi	refractory period (physiology)
不开窍	bu	qiao	unable to understand; can't get the point
不归路	bu	lu	road to ruin; course of action from which there is no turning back
不当一回事	bu	shi	not regard as a matter (of any importance)
不当事	bu	shi	useless; regard as useless
不当家不知柴米贵	bu	gui	a person who doesn't manage a household would not be aware how expensive it is (idiom)
不当得利	bu	li	unjust enrichment
不当紧	bu	jin	not important; of no consequence
不待说	bu	shuo	needless to say; it goes without saying
不得不	bu	bu	have no choice or option but to; cannot but; have to
不得了	bu	liao	desperately serious; disastrous; extremely
不得人心	bu	xin	not to enjoy popular support; to be unpopular
不得其门而入	bu	ru	to be unable to get into (a house, an organization, a field of study, a particular type of career etc)
不得劲	bu	jin	awkward; unhandy; be indisposed
不得已	bu	yi	to act against one's will; to have no alternative but to; to have to
不得已而为之	bu	zhi	to have no other choice; to be the last resort
不得而知	bu	zhi	unknown; unable to find out
不得要领	bu	ling	to fail to grasp the main points
不必要	bu	yao	needless; unnecessary
不忍心	bu	xin	can't bear to (do sth emotionally painful)
不忮不求	bu	qiu	(idiom) to be free of jealousy or greed; to live a simple life, free from worldly desires
不念旧恶	bu	e	do not recall old grievances (idiom, from Analects); forgive and forget
不怀好意	bu	yi	(idiom) to harbor evil designs; to harbor malicious intentions
不怎么	bu	me	not very; not particularly
不怎么样	bu	yang	not up to much; very indifferent; nothing great about it
不怒而威	bu	wei	(idiom) to have an aura of authority; to have a commanding presence
不怕一万就怕万一	bu	yi	better to be safe than sorry (proverb); to be prepared just in case
不怕官只怕管	bu	guan	lit. it is not an official to be feared, but a person in direct control over sb (proverb); fig. to be obliged to comply with people in authority
不怕慢就怕站	bu	zhan	it's better to make slow progress than no progress at all (proverb)
不怕贼偷就怕贼惦记	bu	ji	much worse than having something stolen is when a thief has you in his sights (idiom)
不急之务	bu	wu	(idiom) a matter of no great urgency
不恤人言	bu	yan	not to worry about the gossip (idiom); to do the right thing regardless of what others say
不患寡而患不均	bu	jun	do not worry about scarcity, but rather about uneven distribution (idiom, from Analects)
不悱不发	bu	fa	a student should not be guided until he has made an effort to express his thoughts (idiom)
不情之请	bu	qing	(idiom) (humble expression) my presumptuous request
不情愿	bu	yuan	unwilling
不惜一战	bu	zhan	to be ready to go to war
不惜血本	bu	ben	to spare no effort; to devote all one's energies
不愉快	bu	kuai	disagreeable; unpleasant
不愠不火	bu	huo	calm; unruffled
不愤不启	bu	qi	a student shall not be enlightened until he has tried hard by himself (idiom)
不愧下学	bu	xue	not ashamed to learn from subordinates (idiom)
不愧不怍	bu	zuo	no shame, no subterfuge (idiom); just and honorable; upright and above board
不慌不忙	bu	mang	(idiom) calm; unhurried; composed
不懂装懂	bu	dong	to pretend to understand when you don't
不懈怠	bu	dai	untiring; without slacking
不成体统	bu	tong	not according with decorum (idiom); scandalous; bad form; unacceptable behavior
不成功便成仁	bu	ren	to succeed or die trying (idiom)
不成文	bu	wen	unwritten (rule)
不成文法	bu	fa	unwritten law
不成材	bu	cai	worthless; good-for-nothing
不成样子	bu	zi	shapeless; deformed; ruined
不成话	bu	hua	see 不像話|不像话[bu4 xiang4 hua4]
不战不和	bu	he	neither war nor peace
不打不成器	bu	qi	spare the rod and spoil the child (idiom)
不打不成才	bu	cai	spare the rod and spoil the child (idiom)
不打不成相识	bu	shi	don't fight, won't make friends (idiom); an exchange of blows may lead to friendship
不打不相识	bu	shi	lit. don't fight, won't make friends (idiom); an exchange of blows may lead to friendship; no discord, no concord
不打紧	bu	jin	unimportant; not serious; it doesn't matter
不打自招	bu	zhao	to confess without being pressed; to make a confession without duress
不扩散核武器条约	bu	yue	Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons
不承认主义	bu	yi	policy of non-recognition
不折不扣	bu	kou	a hundred percent; to the letter; out-and-out
不抵抗主义	bu	yi	policy of nonresistance
不拉几	bu	ji	(dialect) extremely
不拉叽	bu	ji	(nasty, stupid etc) as can be
不拘一格	bu	ge	not stick to one pattern
不拘小节	bu	jie	to not bother about trifles (idiom)
不择手段	bu	duan	by fair means or foul; by hook or by crook; unscrupulously
不提也罢	bu	ba	best not to mention it; drop it; never mind
不插电	bu	dian	unplugged (of rock musicians performing on acoustic instruments)
不揣冒昧	bu	mei	to venture to; to presume to; to take the liberty of
不摸头	bu	tou	not acquainted with the situation; not up on things
不撞南墙不回头	bu	tou	to stubbornly insist on one's own ideas (idiom)
不攻自破	bu	po	(of a rumor etc) to collapse (in the light of facts etc); to be discredited
不敢当	bu	dang	lit. I dare not (accept the honor); fig. I don't deserve your praise; you flatter me
不敢恭维	bu	wei	(idiom) less than impressed; underwhelmed
不敢自专	bu	zhuan	not daring to act for oneself (idiom)
不敢苟同	bu	tong	to beg to differ (idiom)
不敢越雷池一步	bu	bu	dare not go one step beyond the prescribed limit
不敢高攀	bu	pan	lit. not dare to pull oneself up high (humble term); I cannot presume on your attention
不方便	bu	bian	inconvenience; inconvenient
不无小补	bu	bu	not be without some advantage; be of some help
不时之需	bu	xu	a possible period of want or need
不明不白	bu	bai	(idiom) obscure; dubious; shady
不明事理	bu	li	not understanding things (idiom); devoid of sense
不明就里	bu	li	not to understand the situation; unaware of the ins and outs
不明确	bu	que	indefinite; unclear
不明觉厉	bu	li	although I don't understand it, it seems pretty awesome (Internet slang)
不明飞行物	bu	wu	UFO (unidentified flying object)
不易之论	bu	lun	perfectly sound proposition; unalterable truth; irrefutable argument
不是东西	bu	xi	(derog.) to be a good-for-nothing; worthless nobody; no-good
不是冤家不聚头	bu	tou	destiny will make enemies meet (idiom); (often said about lovers who have a disagreement)
不是吃素的	bu	de	not to be trifled with; to be reckoned with
不是吗	bu	ma	isn't that so?
不是味儿	bu	r	not the right flavor; not quite right; a bit off
不是滋味	bu	wei	to be upset; to feel disgusted
不是话	bu	hua	see 不像話|不像话[bu4 xiang4 hua4]
不是鱼死就是网破	bu	po	lit. either the fish dies or the net gets torn (idiom); fig. it's a life-and-death struggle; it's either him or me
不显山不露水	bu	shui	lit. to not show the mountain and to not reveal the water (idiom); fig. to hide the key facts
不景气	bu	qi	slack; in a slump
不服气	bu	qi	unwilling to concede; defiant; indignant
不服水土	bu	tu	(of a stranger) not accustomed to the climate of a new place; not acclimatized
不期然而然	bu	ran	happen unexpectedly; turn out contrary to one's expectations
不期而至	bu	zhi	to arrive unexpectably; unexpected
不期而遇	bu	yu	meet by chance; have a chance encounter
不来梅	bu	mei	Bremen (city in Germany)
不来梅港	bu	gang	Bremerhaven, German port
不标准	bu	zhun	nonstandard; incorrect; (of one's speech) poor; woeful (not in keeping with correct pronunciation or usage)
不欢而散	bu	san	to part on bad terms; (of a meeting etc) to break up in discord
不止一次	bu	ci	many times; on more than one occasion
不正之风	bu	feng	unhealthy tendency
不正常	bu	chang	abnormal
不正当	bu	dang	dishonest; unfair; improper
不正当关系	bu	xi	improper relationship; illicit relationship
不正当竞争	bu	zheng	unfair competition; illicit competition
不正确	bu	que	incorrect; erroneous
不死不休	bu	xiu	to fight to one's last gasp
不死心	bu	xin	unwilling to give up; unresigned
不死药	bu	yao	elixir of life
不毛之地	bu	di	(idiom) barren land; desert
不求人	bu	ren	backscratcher (made from bamboo etc)
不求收获	bu	huo	not expecting any reward; not asking for favors
不求有功但求无过	bu	guo	lit. not aiming to achieve the best possible result, but rather trying to avoid making mistakes (idiom); fig. to take a risk-averse approach
不求甚解	bu	jie	lit. not requiring a detailed understanding (idiom); only looking for an overview; not bothered with the details; superficial
不治之症	bu	zheng	incurable disease
不治而愈	bu	yu	to recover spontaneously (from an illness); to get better without medical treatment
不沾锅	bu	guo	non-stick pan (Tw)
不法分子	bu	zi	variant of 不法分子[bu4 fa3 fen4 zi3]
不注意	bu	yi	thoughtless; not pay attention to
不清楚	bu	chu	unclear; not understood; currently unknown
不温不火	bu	huo	(of sales, TV show ratings etc) lukewarm; moderate; so-so
不满意	bu	yi	dissatisfied
不理不睬	bu	cai	to completely ignore (idiom); to pay no attention to; not to be in the least concerned about
不甘于	bu	yu	unwilling to accept; not content with (a subservient role, a mediocre result etc)
不甘人后	bu	hou	(idiom) not want to be outdone; not content to lag behind
不甘后人	bu	ren	(idiom) not want to be outdone; not content to lag behind
不甘寂寞	bu	mo	unwilling to remain lonely or idle; unwilling to be left out
不甘心	bu	xin	not reconciled to; not resigned to
不甘示弱	bu	ruo	(idiom) not to be outdone
不用客气	bu	qi	you're welcome; don't mention it; no need to stand on ceremony
不用找	bu	zhao	"keep the change" (restaurant expression)
不用说	bu	shuo	needless to say; it goes without saying
不用谢	bu	xie	You're welcome; Don't mention it
不由分说	bu	shuo	to allow no explanation
不由得	bu	de	can't help; cannot but
不由自主	bu	zhu	(idiom) can't help but; involuntarily
不畏强暴	bu	bao	not to submit to force (idiom); to defy threats and violence
不畏强权	bu	quan	not to submit to force (idiom); to defy threats and violence
不疾不徐	bu	xu	neither too fast nor too slow (idiom)
不痛不痒	bu	yang	lit. doesn't hurt, doesn't tickle (idiom); sth is wrong, but not quite sure what; fig. not getting to any matter of substance; scratching the surface
不登大雅之堂	bu	tang	lit. not fit for elegant hall (of artwork); not presentable; coarse
不白之冤	bu	yuan	unrighted wrong; unredressed injustice
不相上下	bu	xia	equally matched; about the same
不相容	bu	rong	incompatible
不相容原理	bu	li	(Pauli) exclusion principle (physics)
不相干	bu	gan	to be irrelevant; to have nothing to do with
不相符	bu	fu	not in harmony
不省人事	bu	shi	to lose consciousness; unconscious; in a coma
不看僧面看佛面	bu	mian	lit. not for the monk's sake but for the Buddha's sake (idiom); fig. (to do sth for sb) out of deference to sb else
不眠不休	bu	xiu	without stopping to sleep or have a rest (idiom)
不着痕迹	bu	ji	to leave no trace; seamlessly; unobtrusively
不着边际	bu	ji	not to the point; wide of the mark; neither here nor there
不着陆飞行	bu	xing	nonstop flight
不瞅不睬	bu	cai	(idiom) to ignore completely; to pay no attention to
不知丁董	bu	dong	forgetting the fate of Ding and Dong (idiom); unheeding the lessons of the past
不知不觉	bu	jue	(idiom) unconsciously; unwittingly
不知何故	bu	gu	somehow
不知凡几	bu	ji	one can't tell how many; numerous similar cases
不知利害	bu	hai	see 不知好歹[bu4 zhi1 hao3 dai3]
不知去向	bu	xiang	whereabouts unknown; gone missing
不知天高地厚	bu	hou	not to know the immensity of heaven and earth; an exaggerated opinion of one's own abilities
不知好歹	bu	dai	unable to differentiate good from bad (idiom); not to know what's good for one; unable to recognize others' good intentions
不知就里	bu	li	unaware of the inner workings; naive; unwitting
不知所之	bu	zhi	whereabouts unknown
不知所云	bu	yun	to not know what sb is driving at; to be unintelligible
不知所以	bu	yi	(idiom) to not know the reason; (idiom) to not know what to do
不知所措	bu	cuo	not knowing what to do (idiom); at one's wits' end; embarrassed and at a complete loss
不知所终	bu	zhong	(idiom) to vanish without a trace; to go missing
不知所谓	bu	wei	nonsense; nonsensical; incomprehensible
不知所踪	bu	zong	to vanish without a trace; to go missing
不知死活	bu	huo	to act recklessly (idiom)
不知疲倦	bu	juan	untiring; not recognizing tiredness
不知痛痒	bu	yang	numb; unfeeling; indifferent
不知羞耻	bu	chi	to have no sense of shame; brazen
不知者不罪	bu	zui	One who does not know is not guilty; If one does not know any better, one cannot be held responsible
不知轻重	bu	zhong	lit. not knowing what's important (idiom); no appreciation of the gravity of things; naive; doesn't know who's who
不知进退	bu	tui	not knowing when to come or leave (idiom); with no sense of propriety
不破不立	bu	li	without destruction there can be no construction
不确定性原理	bu	li	Heisenberg's uncertainty principle (1927)
不确实	bu	shi	untrue
不碎玻璃	bu	li	shatterproof or safety glass
不祥之兆	bu	zhao	(idiom) bad omen
不离不弃	bu	qi	to stand by (sb) (idiom); steadfast loyalty
不离儿	bu	r	not bad; pretty good; pretty close
不稂不莠	bu	you	useless; worthless; good-for-nothing
不稳平衡	bu	heng	unstable equilibrium
不稳性	bu	xing	instability
不空成就佛	bu	fo	Amoghasiddhi Buddha
不等价交换	bu	huan	exchange of unequal values
不等号	bu	hao	inequality sign (≠, < , ≤, >, ≥)
不等式	bu	shi	inequality (math.)
不等边三角形	bu	xing	scalene triangle
不简单	bu	dan	not simple; rather complicated; remarkable; marvelous
不管三七二十一	bu	yi	regardless of the consequences; recklessly relying on a hopelessly optimistic forecast
不管不顾	bu	gu	(idiom) to pay scant regard to (sth); (idiom) unheeding; reckless
不管怎样	bu	yang	in any case; no matter what
不粘锅	bu	guo	non-stick pan
不紧不慢	bu	man	(idiom) to take one's time; unhurried; leisurely
不约而同	bu	tong	(idiom) (of two or more people) to take the same action without prior consultation; (usu. used adverbially) all (or both) of them, independently; as if by prior agreement
不经一事不长一智	bu	zhi	lit. you can't gain knowledge without practical experience (idiom); fig. wisdom only comes with experience
不经之谈	bu	tan	absurd statement; cock-and-bull story
不经意	bu	yi	not paying attention; carelessly; by accident
不经意间	bu	jian	without paying attention; without noticing; unconsciously
不结盟	bu	meng	nonalignment
不结盟运动	bu	dong	Non-Aligned Movement (NAM)
不给力	bu	li	lame (unimpressive); a huge letdown; not to try at all
不绝于耳	bu	er	(of sound) to never stop; to fall incessantly on the ear; to linger on
不绝于途	bu	tu	to come and go in an incessant stream
不绝如缕	bu	lv	hanging by a thread; very precarious; almost extinct
不置可否	bu	fou	decline to comment; not express an opinion; be noncommittal
不翼而飞	bu	fei	to disappear without trace; to vanish all of a sudden; to spread fast
不老泉	bu	quan	fountain of youth
不耐受	bu	shou	intolerance (for lactose, gluten or other foods)
不耐烦	bu	fan	impatient; to lose patience
不耻下问	bu	wen	not feel ashamed to ask and learn from one's subordinates
不育性	bu	xing	sterility
不育症	bu	zheng	sterility; barrenness
不胜其扰	bu	rao	unable to put up with (sth) any longer
不胜其烦	bu	fan	to be pestered beyond endurance
不胜其苦	bu	ku	unable to bear the pain (idiom)
不胜枚举	bu	ju	too numerous to mention individually or one by one
不胜酒力	bu	li	to become intoxicated after having only one or two drinks
不胫而走	bu	zou	to get round fast; to spread like wildfire
不能不	bu	bu	have to; cannot but
不能自已	bu	yi	unable to control oneself; to be beside oneself
不自在	bu	zai	uneasy; ill at ease
不自然	bu	ran	unnatural; artificial
不自由毋宁死	bu	si	give me liberty or give me death
不自量	bu	liang	not take a proper measure of oneself; to overrate one's own abilities
不自量力	bu	li	(idiom) to overestimate one's capabilities
不至于	bu	yu	unlikely to go so far as to; not as bad as
不舒服	bu	fu	unwell; feeling ill; to feel uncomfortable
不舒适	bu	shi	uncomfortable
不良人	bu	ren	(Tang dynasty) official responsible for tracking down and arresting lawbreakers
不良倾向	bu	xiang	harmful trend
不莱梅	bu	mei	Bremen (city in Germany)
不落俗套	bu	tao	to conform to no conventional pattern; unconventional; offbeat
不落痕迹	bu	ji	to leave no trace; seamless; professional
不落窠臼	bu	jiu	not follow the beaten track; have an original style
不蒸馒头争口气	bu	qi	not to be crushed (idiom); to be determined to have one's revenge
不虚此行	bu	xing	(idiom) it's been a worthwhile trip
不虞匮乏	bu	fa	to have ample supplies (or money etc)
不行了	bu	le	(coll.) on the point of death; dying
不要在一棵树上吊死	bu	si	don't insist on only taking one road to Rome (idiom); there's more than one way to skin a cat
不要紧	bu	jin	unimportant; not serious; it doesn't matter
不要脸	bu	lian	to have no sense of shame; shameless
不见不散	bu	san	lit. Even if we don't see each other, don't give up and leave (idiom); fig. Be sure to wait!; See you there!
不见了	bu	le	to have disappeared; to be missing; nowhere to be found
不见兔子不撒鹰	bu	ying	you don't release the hawk until you've seen the hare (idiom); one doesn't act before one is sure to succeed
不见天日	bu	ri	all black, no daylight (idiom); a world without justice
不见得	bu	de	not necessarily; not likely
不见棺材不落泪	bu	lei	lit. not to shed a tear until one sees the coffin (idiom); fig. refuse to be convinced until one is faced with grim reality
不见经传	bu	zhuan	not found in the classics (idiom); unknown; unfounded; not authoritative
不规则	bu	ze	irregular
不规则三角形	bu	xing	scalene triangle (math.)
不规则四边形	bu	xing	irregular quadrilateral; trapezium
不规范	bu	fan	not standard; abnormal; irregular
不解风情	bu	qing	unromantic; insensitive
不触目	bu	mu	unobtrusive
不言不语	bu	yu	to not say a word (idiom); to keep silent
不言而喻	bu	yu	(idiom) it goes without saying; it is self-evident
不言自明	bu	ming	self-evident; needing no explanation (idiom)
不计其数	bu	shu	lit. their number cannot be counted (idiom); fig. countless; innumerable
不让须眉	bu	mei	(idiom) to compare favorably with men in terms of ability, bravery etc; to be a match for men; lit. not conceding to men (beard and eyebrows)
不记名	bu	ming	see 無記名|无记名[wu2 ji4 ming2]
不记名投票	bu	piao	secret ballot
不识一丁	bu	ding	total illiterate; unable to read the simplest characters
不识大体	bu	ti	to fail to see the larger issue (idiom); to fail to grasp the big picture
不识好歹	bu	dai	unable to tell good from bad (idiom); undiscriminating
不识字	bu	zi	illiterate
不识庐山真面目	bu	mu	lit. not to know the true face of Lushan Mountain (idiom); fig. can't see the forest for the trees
不识抬举	bu	ju	fail to appreciate sb's kindness; not know how to appreciate favors
不识时务	bu	wu	to show no understanding of the times (idiom); cannot adapt to current circumstances; not amenable to reason
不识时变	bu	bian	to show no understanding of the times (idiom); cannot adapt to current circumstances; not amenable to reason
不识泰山	bu	shan	can't recognize Mt Taishan (idiom); fig. not to recognize a famous person
不识高低	bu	di	can't recognize tall or short (idiom); doesn't know what's what
不说自明	bu	ming	goes without saying; obvious; self-evident
不请自来	bu	lai	to turn up without being invited; unsolicited
不调和	bu	he	discord
不谋而合	bu	he	to agree without prior consultation; to happen to hold the same view
不谙世故	bu	gu	unworldly; unsophisticated
不谙水性	bu	xing	to not know how to swim; to not be a strong swimmer
不象话	bu	hua	unreasonable; shocking; outrageous
不负众望	bu	wang	to live up to expectations (idiom)
不败之地	bu	di	(idiom) invincible position
不贰过	bu	guo	(literary) to not repeat the same mistake
不费事	bu	shi	not troublesome
不费吹灰之力	bu	li	as easy as blowing off dust; effortless; with ease
不赞一词	bu	ci	to keep silent; to make no comment
不赞成	bu	cheng	disapproval; to disapprove
不起眼	bu	yan	unremarkable; nothing out of the ordinary
不起眼儿	bu	r	erhua variant of 不起眼[bu4 qi3 yan3]
不越雷池	bu	chi	not overstepping the prescribed limits; to remain within bounds
不足为外人道	bu	dao	(idiom) no need to tell others; let's keep this between ourselves; also pr. [bu4zu2 wei2 wai4ren2 dao4]
不足为奇	bu	qi	not at all surprising (idiom)
不足为怪	bu	guai	not at all surprising (idiom)
不足为虑	bu	lv	to give no cause for anxiety; nothing to worry about
不足为训	bu	xun	not to be taken as an example; not an example to be followed; not to be taken as authoritative
不足为道	bu	dao	to be not worth mentioning
不足挂齿	bu	chi	not worth mentioning (idiom)
不足月	bu	yue	premature (birth, child)
不足道	bu	dao	inconsiderable; of no consequence; not worth mentioning
不足齿数	bu	shu	not worth mentioning; not worth considering
不轻饶	bu	rao	not to forgive easily; not to let off; (You, He) won't get away with it!
不辞劳苦	bu	ku	to spare no effort
不辞而别	bu	bie	to leave without saying good-bye
不辞辛苦	bu	ku	to make nothing of hardships
不辨菽麦	bu	mai	lit. cannot tell beans from wheat (idiom); fig. ignorant of practical matters
不过如此	bu	ci	(idiom) nothing more than this; that's all; no big deal; not very impressive
不过尔尔	bu	er	not more than so-so (idiom); mediocre; nothing out of the ordinary
不过意	bu	yi	to be sorry; to feel apologetic
不近人情	bu	qing	(idiom) not amenable to reason; unreasonable
不远千里	bu	li	make light of traveling a thousand li; go to the trouble of traveling a long distance
不违农时	bu	shi	not miss the farming season; do farm work in the right season
不连续	bu	xu	discontinuous; discrete
不连续面	bu	mian	surface of discontinuity
不送气	bu	qi	unaspirated
不适当	bu	dang	inadequate; unfit
不透明	bu	ming	opaque
不透气	bu	qi	airtight
不透水	bu	shui	waterproof; watertight; impermeable
不逞之徒	bu	tu	desperado
不速之客	bu	ke	(idiom) uninvited or unexpected guest
不速而至	bu	zhi	to arrive without invitation; unexpected guest; unwanted presence
不逮捕特权	bu	quan	the right of immunity from arrest afforded by the Taiwan ROC Constitution, for the duration of meetings, unless caught actually committing a crime, to members of the National Assembly, the Legislative Yuan, or a supervisory committee
不遑多让	bu	rang	lit. to have no time for civilities (idiom); fig. not to be outdone; not to yield to one's opponents
不道德	bu	de	immoral
不遗余力	bu	li	to spare no pains or effort (idiom); to do one's utmost
不避斧钺	bu	yue	not trying to avoid the battle-ax (idiom); not afraid of dying in combat; not afraid of being executed
不避艰险	bu	xian	shrink or flinch from no difficulty or danger; make light of difficulties and dangers
不醉不归	bu	gui	lit. to not go home until drunk (idiom); fig. let's make a night of it!
不锈钢	bu	gang	stainless steel
不锈铁	bu	tie	rust-resistant iron (an informal term for certain nickel-free stainless steels, usually of lower quality and less corrosion-resistant than true stainless steel such as 304 or 316)
不长眼睛	bu	jing	see 沒長眼睛|没长眼睛[mei2 zhang3 yan3 jing5]
不长进	bu	jin	not improving; backward; below par
不问青红皂白	bu	bai	not distinguishing red-green or black-white (idiom); not to distinguish between right and wrong
不闻不问	bu	wen	not to hear, not to question (idiom); to show no interest in sth; uncritical
不随意	bu	yi	unconscious; involuntary
不随意肌	bu	ji	involuntary muscle
不雅观	bu	guan	offensive to the eye; unbecoming; unsightly
不露声色	bu	se	not show one's feeling or intentions
不顾一切	bu	qie	(idiom) to disregard all negative considerations; to cast aside all concerns
不顾前后	bu	hou	regardless of what's before or after (idiom); rushing blindly into sth
不顾大局	bu	ju	to give no consideration to the bigger picture (usually implying selfishness)
不食人间烟火	bu	huo	otherworldly; detached from the mundane concerns of ordinary life
不饱和	bu	he	unsaturated
不饱和脂肪酸	bu	suan	unsaturated fatty acid
不首先使用	bu	yong	no first use (policy for nuclear weapons); NFU
不香吗	bu	ma	(slang) would be better (abbr. for 這錢買排骨它不香嗎|这钱买排骨它不香吗[zhe4 qian2 mai3 pai2 gu3 ta1 bu4 xiang1 ma5] for that money, a pork cutlet would be more appetizing, would it not?)
与世俯仰	yu	yang	to swim with the tide (idiom)
与世无争	yu	zheng	(idiom) to stand aloof from worldly affairs
与世永别	yu	bie	to die
与世长辞	yu	ci	to die; to depart from the world forever
与世隔绝	yu	jue	to be cut off from the rest of the world (idiom)
与人为善	yu	shan	to be of service to others; to help others; benevolent
与人方便自己方便	yu	bian	Help others, and others may help you (idiom).
与众不同	yu	tong	(idiom) to stand out from the crowd; distinctive; different from the rest
与全世界为敌	yu	di	(idiom) to fight the whole world
与日俱增	yu	zeng	to increase steadily; to grow with each passing day
与日俱进	yu	jin	every day sees new developments (idiom); to make constant progress
与日同辉	yu	hui	to become more glorious with each passing day (idiom)
与时俱进	yu	jin	abreast of modern developments; to keep up with the times; progressive
与时消息	yu	xi	variable with the times; transient; impermanent
与时间赛跑	yu	pao	to race against time
与此同时	yu	shi	at the same time; meanwhile
与狐谋皮	yu	pi	(idiom) to ask sb to act contrary to their own interests (original form of the expression 與虎謀皮|与虎谋皮[yu3 hu3 mou2 pi2])
与生俱来	yu	lai	inherent; innate
与虎谋皮	yu	pi	(lit.) to negotiate with a tiger for its pelt (idiom); (fig.) to ask sb to act contrary to their own interests
丑人多作怪	chou	guai	(saying) unattractive or untalented people tend to make spectacles of themselves
丑八怪	chou	guai	ugly person
丑妻近地家中宝	chou	bao	an ugly wife is a treasure at home (idiom)
丑媳妇早晚要见公婆	chou	po	(lit.) the ugly daughter-in-law must sooner or later meet her parents-in-law (proverb); (fig.) something unpleasant or embarrassing cannot be avoided forever; sooner or later one must face it
丑小鸭	chou	ya	(fig.) ugly duckling
丑话说在前头	chou	tou	let's talk about the unpleasant things first; let's be frank
专业人士	zhuan	shi	a professional
专业人才	zhuan	cai	expert (in a field)
专业化	zhuan	hua	specialization
专业性	zhuan	xing	professionalism; specialization
专业户	zhuan	hu	rural household that specializes in a particular type of product; (fig.) specialist
专业教育	zhuan	yu	specialized education; technical school
专利局	zhuan	ju	patent office
专利权	zhuan	quan	patent right
专利法	zhuan	fa	patent law
专利药品	zhuan	pin	patent drugs
专制主义	zhuan	yi	absolutism; despotism; autocracy
专制君主制	zhuan	zhi	absolute monarchy; autocracy
专卖店	zhuan	dian	specialty store
专名词	zhuan	ci	proper noun
专家系统	zhuan	tong	expert system
专家评价	zhuan	jia	expert evaluation
专家评论	zhuan	lun	expert commentary
专属经济区	zhuan	qu	exclusive economic zone
专心一意	zhuan	yi	to concentrate on
专心致志	zhuan	zhi	(idiom) single-minded; fully focused
专有名词	zhuan	ci	technical term; proper noun
专案小组	zhuan	zu	task force
专案组	zhuan	zu	special investigation team (legal or judicial)
专案经理	zhuan	li	project manager
专用网路	zhuan	lu	dedicated network
专用集成电路	zhuan	lu	application-specific integrated circuit (ASIC)
专科学校	zhuan	xiao	specialized school; college for professional training; polytechnic
专科院校	zhuan	xiao	academy
专美于前	zhuan	qian	to monopolize the limelight (idiom); to get all the glory; to rank highest
专营店	zhuan	dian	exclusive agency; franchised shop; authorized store
专门人员	zhuan	yuan	specialist; specialized staff
专门列车	zhuan	che	special train
专门化	zhuan	hua	to specialize
专门家	zhuan	jia	specialist
专门机构	zhuan	gou	specialized agency
专题地图	zhuan	tu	thematic map
专题报导	zhuan	dao	special report (in the media)
专题片	zhuan	pian	special report (shown on TV etc)
且不说	qie	shuo	not to mention; leaving aside
且听下回分解	qie	jie	to listen to the next chapter for an explanation
且末县	qie	xian	Qiemo, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
且末遗址	qie	zhi	ruins of Cherchen, Qarqan or Chiemo, archaeological site in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州, Xinjiang
世世代代	shi	dai	for many generations
世代交替	shi	ti	(biology) alternation of generations; (fig.) generational succession; passing of the torch from one generation to the next
世代相传	shi	chuan	passed on from generation to generation (idiom); to hand down
世博会	shi	hui	World Expo (abbr. for 世界博覽會|世界博览会[Shi4 jie4 Bo2 lan3 hui4])
世卫组织	shi	zhi	World Health Organization (WHO) (abbr. for 世界衛生組織|世界卫生组织[Shi4 jie4 Wei4 sheng1 Zu3 zhi1])
世外桃源	shi	yuan	see 桃花源[tao2 hua1 yuan2]
世外桃花源	shi	yuan	see 桃花源[tao2 hua1 yuan2]
世宗大王	shi	wang	Sejong the Great or Sejong Daewang (1397-1450), reigned 1418-1450 as fourth king of Joseon or Chosun dynasty, in whose reign the hangeul alphabet was invented
世态炎凉	shi	liang	the hypocrisy of the world (idiom)
世界人权宣言	shi	yan	Universal Declaration of Human Rights
世界博览会	shi	hui	World Expo; abbr. to 世博[Shi4 bo2]
世界卫生大会	shi	hui	World Health Assembly
世界卫生组织	shi	zhi	World Health Organization (WHO)
世界变暖	shi	nuan	global warming
世界各地	shi	di	all over the world; everywhere; in all parts of the world
世界和平	shi	ping	world peace
世界大战	shi	zhan	world war
世界小姐选美	shi	mei	Miss World Beauty Pageant
世界屋脊	shi	ji	the roof of the world (usually refers to Tibet or Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau 青藏高原[Qing1 Zang4 gao1 yuan2])
世界强国	shi	guo	world power
世界报	shi	bao	the name of various newspapers, notably Le Monde (France), El Mundo (Spain) and Die Welt (Germany)
世界文化遗产	shi	chan	(UNESCO) World Cultural Heritage
世界旅游组织	shi	zhi	World Tourism Organization (UNWTO)
世界日报	shi	bao	World Journal, US newspaper
世界末日	shi	ri	end of the world
世界杯	shi	bei	World Cup
世界气象组织	shi	zhi	World Meteorological Organization (WMO)
世界波	shi	bo	(soccer slang) spectacular, world-class goal; wonder goal (originally Cantonese: 波 is borrowed from English "ball", Jyutping [bo1])
世界海关组织	shi	zhi	World Customs Organization
世界知名	shi	ming	world famous
世界知识产权组织	shi	zhi	World Intellectual Property Organization
世界第一	shi	yi	ranked number one in the world; the world's first
世界粮食署	shi	shu	World food program (United Nations aid agency)
世界级	shi	ji	world-class
世界纪录	shi	lu	world record
世界经济	shi	ji	global economy; world economy
世界经济论坛	shi	tan	World Economic Forum
世界维吾尔代表大会	shi	hui	World Uighur Congress
世界自然基金会	shi	hui	World Wildlife Fund WWF
世界观	shi	guan	worldview; world outlook; Weltanschauung
世界语	shi	yu	Esperanto
世界贸易	shi	yi	world trade; global trade
世界贸易中心	shi	xin	World Trade Center
世界贸易组织	shi	zhi	World Trade Organization (WTO)
世界运动会	shi	hui	World Games
世界野生生物基金会	shi	hui	World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
世界金融中心	shi	xin	World Financial Center (New York City)
世界银行	shi	hang	World Bank
世界闻名	shi	ming	world famous
世禄之家	shi	jia	family with hereditary emoluments
世纪末	shi	mo	end of the century
世纪末年	shi	nian	final years of the century
世维会	shi	hui	World Uighur Congress (abbr. for 世界維吾爾代表大會|世界维吾尔代表大会[Shi4 jie4 Wei2 wu2 er3 Dai4 biao3 Da4 hui4])
世袭之争	shi	zheng	succession struggle; dispute over inheritance
世袭君主国	shi	guo	hereditary monarchy
世袭罔替	shi	ti	(of a position or title) to be passed down unaltered through generations within a family
世说新语	shi	yu	A New Account of the Tales of the World, collection of anecdotes, conversations, remarks etc of historic personalities, compiled and edited by Liu Yiqing 劉義慶|刘义庆[Liu2 Yi4 qing4]
世贸中心大楼	shi	lou	World Trade Center (the twin towers destroyed by the 9-11 terrorists)
世贸大厦	shi	sha	World Trade Center
世贸组织	shi	zhi	WTO (World Trade Organization)
世锦赛	shi	sai	world championship
世风日下	shi	xia	public morals are degenerating with each passing day (idiom)
丘北县	qiu	xian	Qiubei, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
丘吉尔	qiu	er	variant of 邱吉爾|邱吉尔[Qiu1 ji2 er3]
丘尔金	qiu	jin	Churkin (name); Vitaly I. Churkin (1952-), Russian diplomat, Ambassador to UN from 2006
丘成桐	qiu	tong	Shing-Tung Yau (1949-), Chinese-American mathematician, Fields medalist in 1982
丘比特	qiu	te	Cupid, son of Venus and Mars, Roman god of love and beauty
丘脑损伤	qiu	shang	thalamic lesions
丘逢甲	qiu	jia	Qiu Fengjia or Ch'iu Feng-chia (1864-1912), Taiwanese Hakkanese poet
丙三醇	bing	chun	glycerine; same as 甘油
丙二醇	bing	chun	propylene glycol; propane-1,2-diol C3H6(OH)2
丙型肝炎	bing	yan	hepatitis C
丙子战争	bing	zheng	second Manchu invasion of Korea (1636)
丙子胡乱	bing	luan	second Manchu invasion of Korea (1636)
丙氨酸	bing	suan	alanine (Ala), an amino acid
丙烯腈	bing	jing	acrylo-nitrile
丙烯酸	bing	suan	acrylic acid C3H4O2
丙烯酸酯	bing	zhi	acrylic ester
丙烯醛	bing	quan	acrolein CH2CHCHO
丙环唑	bing	zuo	propiconazole (antifungal agent)
丙种射线	bing	xian	gamma ray
丙酮酸	bing	suan	pyruvic acid CH3COCOOH
丙酮酸脱氢酶	bing	mei	pyruvate dehydrogenase
丙酸氟替卡松	bing	song	fluticasone propionate
业余大学	ye	xue	college for people who attend after work
业余教育	ye	yu	spare-time education; evening classes
业余爱好者	ye	zhe	hobbyist; amateur
业余者	ye	zhe	amateur
业务员	ye	yuan	salesperson
业界标准	ye	zhun	industry standard
业精于勤	ye	qin	mastery of study lies in diligence (idiom). You can only master a subject by assiduous study.; Excellence in work is only possible with diligence.; Practice makes perfect.
业荒于嬉	ye	xi	to be distracted from one's work and fail to achieve results (idiom)
业配文	ye	wen	(Tw) advertorial
丛台区	cong	qu	Congtai, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
丛林法则	cong	ze	the law of the jungle
东一榔头西一棒子	dong	zi	banging away clumsily in all directions with no overall vision
东三省	dong	sheng	the three provinces of Northeast China, namely: Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3], Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3] and Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
东中国海	dong	hai	East China sea
东丰县	dong	xian	Dongfeng, a county in Liaoyuan City 遼源市|辽源市[Liao2 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
东丽区	dong	qu	Dongli suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
东乌珠穆沁旗	dong	qi	East Ujimqin banner or Züün Üzemchin khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
东乡区	dong	qu	Dongxiang, a district of Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
东乡族	dong	zu	Dongxiang ethnic group
东乡族自治县	dong	xian	Dongxiang Autonomous County, in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
东亚峰会	dong	hui	East Asia Summit, annual meeting of leading Asian states
东亚病夫	dong	fu	(derog.) "the Sick Man of Asia" (historical term referring to China in its weakened state in the late 19th and early 20th centuries)
东亚运动会	dong	hui	East Asian Games
东亚银行	dong	hang	Bank of East Asia
东交民巷	dong	xiang	East Jiaomin Lane, a street in central Beijing and its surrounding district, formerly known as the Peking Legation Quarter, where foreign diplomatic missions were located during the period 1861–1959
东京塔	dong	ta	Tokyo Tower
东京大学	dong	xue	Tokyo University, Japan
东京帝国大学	dong	xue	Tokyo Imperial University (renamed Tokyo University after 1945)
东京湾	dong	wan	Tokyo Bay; former name of 北部灣|北部湾[Bei3 bu4 Wan1], Gulf of Tonkin
东仓里	dong	li	Dongchang-ni, North Korean missile launch site on Yellow Sea, 70 km from Chinese border
东仓鸮	dong	xiao	(bird species of China) eastern barn owl (Tyto javanica)
东伊运	dong	yun	abbr. for 東突厥斯坦伊斯蘭運動|东突厥斯坦伊斯兰运动[Dong1 Tu1 jue2 si1 tan3 Yi1 si1 lan2 Yun4 dong4] East Turkestan Islamic Movement (ETIM)
东倒西歪	dong	wai	to lean unsteadily from side to side (idiom); to sway; (of buildings etc) to lean at a crazy angle
东光县	dong	xian	Dongguang, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
东兔西乌	dong	wu	lit. the sun setting and the moon rising (idiom); fig. the passage of time
东兰县	dong	xian	Donglan, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
东兴区	dong	qu	Dongxing, a district of Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
东兴市	dong	shi	Dongxing, a county-level city in Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
东北亚	dong	ya	Northeast Asia
东北大学	dong	xue	Northeastern University (in Shenyang 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 shi4], Liaoning); Tōhoku University, Sendai, Japan
东北平原	dong	yuan	Northeast Plain, also called the Manchurian Plain
东北方	dong	fang	northeast; northeastern
东北虎	dong	hu	Amur tiger (Panthera tigris altaica)
东半球	dong	qiu	the Eastern Hemisphere
东华三院	dong	yuan	Tung Wah Group of Hospitals (Hong Kong)
东南亚	dong	ya	Southeast Asia
东南亚国协	dong	xie	(Tw) ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations)
东南亚国家联盟	dong	meng	ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations)
东南大学	dong	xue	Southeast University
东南西北	dong	bei	east, south, west and north; all directions
东南西北中	dong	zhong	the five directions 五方 east, south, west, north and middle
东南部	dong	bu	southeast part
东印度公司	dong	si	East India Company
东台市	dong	shi	Dongtai, a county-level city in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
东吴大学	dong	xue	Soochow University (Suzhou, PRC from 1900-1952); Soochow University (Taipei, Taiwan since 1954)
东坡区	dong	qu	Dongpo, a district of Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
东坡肉	dong	rou	stir-fried pork, favorite of Northern Song writer Su Shi 蘇軾|苏轼, a.k.a. Su Dongpo 蘇東坡|苏东坡
东坡肘子	dong	zi	Dongpo pork shoulder, traditional dish said to have been created by Northern Song dynasty writer Su Dongpo 蘇東坡|苏东坡
东城区	dong	qu	Dongcheng, a district of central Beijing
东太平洋	dong	yang	east Pacific
东太平洋海隆	dong	long	East Pacific Rise (a mid-oceanic ridge stretching from California to Antarctica)
东太平洋隆起	dong	qi	East Pacific Rise (a mid-oceanic ridge stretching from California to Antarctica)
东奔西走	dong	zou	to run this way and that (idiom); to rush about busily; to bustle about; to hopscotch
东奔西跑	dong	pao	to run this way and that (idiom); to rush about busily; to bustle about
东宁市	dong	shi	Dongning, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
东安区	dong	qu	Dong'an, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
东安县	dong	xian	Dong'an, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
东宝区	dong	qu	Dongbao, a district of Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
东家长西家短	dong	duan	to gossip (idiom)
东密德兰	dong	lan	East Midlands, English county
东山再起	dong	qi	lit. to return to office after living as a hermit on Mount Dongshan (idiom); fig. to make a comeback
东山区	dong	qu	Dongshan, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
东山县	dong	xian	Dongshan, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
东川区	dong	qu	Dongchuan, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
东巴文化	dong	hua	Dongba culture of the Nakhi ethnic group of Lijiang 麗江|丽江 in northwest Yunnan
东帝汶	dong	wen	Timor-Leste (East Timor)
东平县	dong	xian	Dongping, a county in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
东张西望	dong	wang	to look in all directions (idiom); to glance around
东征西怨	dong	yuan	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
东征西讨	dong	tao	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
东拉西扯	dong	che	to talk about this and that (idiom); to ramble incoherently
东拼西凑	dong	cou	(idiom) to assemble from bits and pieces; to combine items from disparate sources
东掩西遮	dong	zhe	to cover up the truth on all sides (idiom)
东摇西摆	dong	bai	(idiom) to sway from side to side; unsteady; (idiom) indecisive; hesitant
东方三博士	dong	shi	the Magi; the Three Wise Kings from the East in the biblical nativity story
东方不亮西方亮	dong	liang	if it isn't bright in the east, it'll be bright in the west (idiom); if something doesn't work here, it might work somewhere else
东方叽咋柳莺	dong	ying	(bird species of China) mountain chiffchaff (Phylloscopus sindianus)
东方大苇莺	dong	ying	(bird species of China) oriental reed warbler (Acrocephalus orientalis)
东方寿带	dong	dai	(bird species of China) Blyth's paradise flycatcher (Terpsiphone affinis)
东方市	dong	shi	Dongfang City, Hainan
东方文明	dong	ming	Eastern civilization
东方日报	dong	bao	Oriental Daily News
东方明珠塔	dong	ta	Oriental Pearl Tower
东方明珠电视塔	dong	ta	Oriental Pearl Television Tower
东方狍	dong	pao	Siberian roe deer (Capreolus pygargus)
东方白鹳	dong	guan	(bird species of China) oriental stork (Ciconia boyciana)
东方红	dong	hong	The East is Red, north Shaanxi folk song
东方航空	dong	kong	China Eastern Airlines
东方阿閦佛	dong	fo	Aksobhya, the imperturbable ruler of Eastern Paradise, Abhirati
东方青龙	dong	long	see 青龍|青龙[Qing1 long2]
东方马脑炎病毒	dong	du	eastern equine encephalitis (EEE) virus
东方鸻	dong	heng	(bird species of China) oriental plover (Anarhynchus veredus)
东施效颦	dong	pin	lit. Dong Shi imitates Xi Shi's frown (idiom); fig. to mimick sb's idiosyncrasies but make a fool of oneself
东昌区	dong	qu	Dongchang, a district of Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
东昌府	dong	fu	see 東昌府區|东昌府区[Dong1 chang1 fu3 Qu1]
东昌府区	dong	qu	Dongchangfu, a district of Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
东明县	dong	xian	Dongming, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
东条英机	dong	ji	Tojo Hideki (1884-1948), Japanese military leader hanged as war criminal in 1948
东欧平原	dong	yuan	East European Plain
东正教	dong	jiao	Eastern Orthodox Church
东河区	dong	qu	Donghe, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
东洋界	dong	jie	Indomalayan realm
东洋话	dong	hua	Japanese (language) (old)
东洋鬼	dong	gui	(esp. during resistance against Japanese aggression 1931–1945) Jap; Nip
东洋鬼子	dong	zi	(esp. during resistance against Japanese aggression 1931–1945) Jap; Nip
东洲区	dong	qu	Dongzhou, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
东海县	dong	xian	Donghai, a county in Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
东海大学	dong	xue	Tunghai University (in Taichung, Taiwan)
东海大桥	dong	qiao	Donghai Bridge, 32.5 km bridge between Shanghai and the offshore Yangshan deep-water port
东海岸	dong	an	East Coast
东海舰队	dong	dui	East Sea Fleet
东港区	dong	qu	Donggang, a district of Rizhao City 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
东港市	dong	shi	Donggang, a county-level city in Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
东湖区	dong	qu	Donghu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
东源县	dong	xian	Dongyuan, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
东王公	dong	gong	Mu Kung or Tung Wang Kung, God of the Immortals (Taoism)
东直门	dong	men	Dongzhimen neighborhood of Beijing
东瞧西瞅	dong	chou	see 東張西望|东张西望[dong1 zhang1 xi1 wang4]
东突厥斯坦	dong	tan	East Turkestan; historical term for Xinjiang
东突厥斯坦解放组织	dong	zhi	East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO), Xinjiang dissident group
东突组织	dong	zhi	abbr. for 東突厥斯坦解放組織|东突厥斯坦解放组织[Dong1 Tu1 jue2 si1 tan3 Jie3 fang4 Zu3 zhi1], East Turkestan Liberation Organization (ETLO)
东窗事发	dong	fa	(of a plot etc) to be exposed (idiom); to come to light
东缅高原	dong	yuan	Eastern Myanmar plateau
东罗马帝国	dong	guo	Eastern Roman empire or Byzantium (395-1453)
东胜区	dong	qu	Dongsheng, a district of Ordos City 鄂爾多斯市|鄂尔多斯市[E4 er3 duo1 si1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
东至县	dong	xian	Dongzhi, a county in Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
东莞市	dong	shi	Dongguan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
东营区	dong	qu	Dongying, a district of Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
东营市	dong	shi	Dongying, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
东西半球	dong	qiu	East and West hemispheres
东西南北	dong	bei	east west south north
东西周	dong	zhou	Western Zhou (1045-771 BC) and Eastern Zhou (770-256 BC)
东西宽	dong	kuan	east-west distance
东西德	dong	de	East and West Germany; refers to the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) and the Federal Republic of Germany (West Germany)
东西方	dong	fang	east and west; east to west
东西方文化	dong	hua	Eastern and Western culture
东西湖	dong	hu	see 東西湖區|东西湖区[Dong1 xi1 hu2 Qu1]
东西湖区	dong	qu	Dongxihu, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
东观汉记	dong	ji	Dongguan Hanji, a history of the Eastern Han dynasty consisting of 143 volumes compiled by many 1st and 2nd century authors
东讨西征	dong	zheng	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
东躲西闪	dong	shan	to dodge about
东边儿	dong	r	erhua variant of 東邊|东边[dong1 bian5]
东辽县	dong	xian	Dongliao, a county in Liaoyuan City 遼源市|辽源市[Liao2 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
东道主	dong	zhu	host; official host (e.g. venue for games or a conference)
东道国	dong	guo	host country; host state
东部时间	dong	jian	Eastern Standard Time (EST)
东阳市	dong	shi	Dongyang, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
东阿县	dong	xian	Dong'e, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
东非共同体	dong	ti	East African Community
东非大地堑	dong	qian	Great East African rift valley
东非大裂谷	dong	gu	East African Rift Valley
东风区	dong	qu	Dongfeng, a district of Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
东风压倒西风	dong	feng	lit. the east wind prevails over the west wind (idiom); fig. one side prevails over the other; progressive ideas prevail over reactionary ones
东鳞西爪	dong	zhao	lit. a dragon's scale from the east and a dragon's claw from the west; odds and ends (idiom)
丝丝小雨	si	yu	fine drizzle
丝光椋鸟	si	niao	(bird species of China) red-billed starling (Spodiopsar sericeus)
丝毫不差	si	cha	accurate to perfection (idiom); precise to the finest detail
丝氨酸	si	suan	serine (Ser), an amino acid
丝状物	si	wu	filament
丝状病毒	si	du	filovirus
丝盘虫	si	chong	Trichoplax adhaerens (biology)
丝竹管弦	si	xian	(lit.) string and wind instruments (idiom); (fig.) traditional Chinese ensemble music
丝织品	si	pin	item made from woven silk or rayon
丝织物	si	wu	woven silk fabric
丝绸之路	si	lu	Silk Road
丝绸古路	si	lu	the ancient Silk Road; see also 絲綢之路|丝绸之路[Si1 chou2 zhi1 Lu4]
丝绸织物	si	wu	silk fabric
丢三落四	diu	si	forgetful; empty-headed
丢乌纱帽	diu	mao	lit. to lose one's black hat; to be sacked from an official post
丢人现眼	diu	yan	to make an exhibition of oneself; to be a disgrace
丢份子	diu	zi	(coll.) to lose face; to be disgraced
丢到家	diu	jia	to lose (face) utterly
丢番图方程	diu	cheng	(math.) Diophantine equation
丢盔弃甲	diu	jia	(idiom) to throw away one's helmet and armor while fleeing from defeat
丢眉丢眼	diu	yan	to wink at sb
丢眉弄色	diu	se	to wink at sb
丢轮扯炮	diu	pao	(idiom) flustered; confused
丢面子	diu	zi	to lose face
丢饭碗	diu	wan	to lose one's job
丢魂落魄	diu	po	see 失魂落魄[shi1 hun2 luo4 po4]
两下子	liang	zi	a couple of times; to repeat the same; the same old trick
两不相欠	liang	qian	to be even; to be quits; to be even-steven
两不误	liang	wu	to neglect neither one
两个中国	liang	guo	two-China (policy)
两伊战争	liang	zheng	Iran-Iraq War (1980-1988)
两侧对称	liang	chen	bilateral symmetry
两党制	liang	zhi	two-party system
两全其美	liang	mei	to satisfy rival demands (idiom); to get the best of both worlds; to have it both ways
两分法	liang	fa	(Maoism) one divides into two
两千年	liang	nian	the year 2000; 2000 years
两厢情愿	liang	yuan	both sides are willing; by mutual consent
两口儿	liang	r	husband and wife; couple
两口子	liang	zi	husband and wife
两回事	liang	shi	two quite different things; two unrelated matters
两国之间	liang	jian	between the two countries; bilateral
两国相争不斩来使	liang	shi	when two kingdoms are at war, they don't execute envoys (idiom)
两头儿	liang	r	erhua variant of 兩頭|两头[liang3 tou2]
两小无猜	liang	cai	innocent playmates
两岸三地	liang	di	China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau (media term used esp. since 1997)
两广总督	liang	du	Governor of Guangdong and Guangxi
两弹一星	liang	xing	(China's achievements of) producing an atomic bomb (1964) and hydrogen bomb (1967) and launching a satellite into space (1970)
两当县	liang	xian	Liangdang, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
两性动物	liang	wu	hermaphrodite creature
两性差距	liang	ju	disparity between the sexes
两性平等	liang	deng	equality between the sexes
两性异形	liang	xing	sexual dimorphism
两性离子	liang	zi	(chemistry) zwitterion
两性花	liang	hua	hermaphrodite flower
两情两愿	liang	yuan	by mutual consent (north China dialect)
两情相悦	liang	yue	(of a couple) to be harmonious; to be each other's sunshine
两手不沾阳春水	liang	shui	see 十指不沾陽春水|十指不沾阳春水[shi2 zhi3 bu4 zhan1 yang2 chun1 shui3]
两手空空	liang	kong	empty-handed (idiom); fig. not receiving anything
两手策略	liang	lve	two-pronged strategy
两把刷子	liang	zi	ability; skill
两星期	liang	qi	fortnight
两极分化	liang	hua	polarization
两极化	liang	hua	to polarize; polarization; polarized; divergent
两栖动物	liang	wu	amphibian; amphibious animals
两栖类	liang	lei	class Amphibia; amphibians
两样东西	liang	xi	two distinct things
两步路	liang	lu	a step away; very close
两江道	liang	dao	Ryanggang province province in north North Korea, adjacent to Jilin province
两河文明	liang	ming	Mesopotamian civilization
两河流域	liang	yu	Mesopotamia
两点水	liang	shui	name of the "ice" radical 冫[bing1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 15)
两生类	liang	lei	(biology) class Amphibia
两相情愿	liang	yuan	both sides are willing; by mutual consent
两眼一摸黑	liang	hei	(of sb in an unfamiliar situation) helpless and disoriented
两码事	liang	shi	two things that are fundamentally different from each other; two very different things
两码子事	liang	shi	see 兩碼事|两码事[liang3 ma3 shi4]
两耳不闻窗外事	liang	shi	to pay no attention to outside matters
两肋插刀	liang	dao	(lit.) to take knives in both sides (idiom); (fig.) to go to any lengths for a friend; to sacrifice oneself out of loyalty
两脚架	liang	jia	bipod (supporting a machine gun etc)
两节棍	liang	gun	nunchaku
两虎相争	liang	zheng	(lit.) two tigers fighting (idiom); (fig.) fierce contest between evenly matched adversaries
两虎相争必有一伤	liang	shang	(lit.) if two tigers fight, one will get injured (idiom); (fig.) if you start a war, someone is bound to get hurt
两虎相斗	liang	dou	see 兩虎相爭|两虎相争[liang3 hu3 xiang1 zheng1]
两虎相斗必有一伤	liang	shang	see 兩虎相爭，必有一傷|两虎相争，必有一伤[liang3 hu3 xiang1 zheng1 , bi4 you3 yi1 shang1]
两袖清风	liang	feng	lit. both sleeves flowing in the breeze (idiom); having clean hands; uncorrupted; unsoiled by corrupt practices
两败俱伤	liang	shang	both sides suffer (idiom); neither side wins
两重天	liang	tian	two entirely different worlds; two contrasting realities
两院制	liang	zhi	bicameralism; bicameral legislative system
两面三刀	liang	dao	two-faced, three knives (idiom); double-cross; double dealing and back stabbing
两面人	liang	ren	two-faced person
两面刃	liang	ren	double-edged sword
两面派	liang	pai	two-faced person; double-dealing
两面针	liang	zhen	shiny-leaf prickly-ash (Zanthoxylum nitidum)
两颊生津	liang	jin	mouth-watering; to whet one's appetite
两鬓斑白	liang	bai	(idiom) to have gray hair at the temples
严丝合缝	yan	feng	(idiom) to fit together snugly; to dovetail perfectly
严严实实	yan	shi	(sealed) tightly; (wrapped) closely; (covered) completely
严了眼儿	yan	r	up to the eyeballs; full to overflowing; jampacked
严于律己	yan	ji	to be strict with oneself
严以律己	yan	ji	to be strict with oneself (idiom); to demand a lot of oneself
严刑拷打	yan	da	torture; interrogation by torture
严厉打击	yan	ji	to strike a severe blow; to crack down; to take strong measures
严厉批评	yan	ping	to criticize severely; to slate
严岛神社	yan	she	Itsukushima Shrine (Shinto shrine in Hiroshima, Japan)
严惩不贷	yan	dai	to punish severely (idiom)
严格来讲	yan	jiang	strictly speaking
严格来说	yan	shuo	strictly speaking
严格隔离	yan	li	rigorous isolation
严重关切	yan	qie	serious concern
严重后果	yan	guo	grave consequence; serious repercussion
严重性	yan	xing	seriousness
严重问题	yan	ti	serious problem
丧天害理	sang	li	devoid of conscience (idiom)
丧失殆尽	sang	jin	to be used up; to be exhausted
丧家之犬	sang	quan	(lit.) stray dog (idiom); (fig.) one who has nothing to rely on
丧家之狗	sang	gou	see 喪家之犬|丧家之犬[sang4 jia1 zhi1 quan3]
丧尽天良	sang	liang	devoid of conscience (idiom); utterly heartless
丧心病狂	sang	kuang	(idiom) deranged; demented; berserk
丧权辱国	sang	guo	to forfeit sovereignty and humiliate the country (idiom); to surrender territory under humiliating terms
丧气话	sang	hua	demoralizing talk
丧气鬼	sang	gui	downcast wretch; bad-tempered and unpleasant person
丧葬费	sang	fei	funeral expenses
丧门星	sang	xing	messenger of death; person bringing bad luck; Taiwan pr. [sang1 men2 xing1]
丧门神	sang	shen	messenger of death; person bringing bad luck
丧魂失魄	sang	po	(idiom) out of one's senses; shaken to the core; dazed
丧魂落魄	sang	po	scared out of one's wits (idiom); in a panic
个中人	ge	ren	a person in the know
个人主义	ge	yi	individualism
个人伤害	ge	hai	personal injury
个人储蓄	ge	xu	personal savings
个人崇拜	ge	bai	personality cult
个人所得税	ge	shui	personal income tax
个人数字助理	ge	li	personal digital assistant (PDA)
个人电脑	ge	nao	personal computer; PC
个人赛	ge	sai	individual competition; individual race
个人隐私	ge	si	personal privacy; private matters
个体户	ge	hu	self-employed; a private firm (PRC usage)
个体经济学	ge	xue	(Tw) microeconomics
个头儿	ge	r	size; height; stature
个性化	ge	hua	to personalize; to customize; customization
个旧市	ge	shi	Gejiu, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
个顶个	ge	ge	(dialect) each one; every one
丫头片子	ya	zi	(coll.) silly girl; little girl
丫巴儿	ya	r	fork (of a tree, road, argument etc); bifurcation; fork junction
中世纪	zhong	ji	medieval; Middle Ages
中东呼吸综合征	zhong	zheng	Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS)
中乐透	zhong	tou	to win in a lotto game
中二病	zhong	bing	(neologism) strange behavior characteristic of a teenager going through puberty (loanword from Japanese "chūnibyō")
中亚夜鹰	zhong	ying	(bird species of China) Vaurie's nightjar (Caprimulgus centralasicus)
中亚细亚	zhong	ya	Central Asia
中亚草原	zhong	yuan	Central Asian grasslands
中亚鸽	zhong	ge	(bird species of China) yellow-eyed pigeon (Columba eversmanni)
中产阶级	zhong	ji	middle class
中介所	zhong	suo	agency
中介资料	zhong	liao	metadata
中企业	zhong	ye	medium sized enterprise
中位数	zhong	shu	(statistics) median
中低端	zhong	duan	mid-to-low-range
中体西用	zhong	yong	adopting Western knowledge for its practical uses while keeping Chinese values as the core
中俄伊犁条约	zhong	yue	Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1881, whereby Russia handed back Yili province to Qing China in exchange for compensation payment and unequal treaty rights
中俄关系	zhong	xi	Sino-Russian relations
中俄北京条约	zhong	yue	the Treaty of Beijing of 1860 between Qing China and Tsarist Russia
中俄尼布楚条约	zhong	yue	Treaty of Nerchinsk (1698) between Qing China and Russia
中俄改订条约	zhong	yue	Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1881, whereby Russia handed back Yili province to Qing China in exchange for compensation payment and unequal treaty rights
中俄边界协议	zhong	yi	Sino-Russian Border Agreement of 1991
中信银行	zhong	hang	China CITIC Bank
中值定理	zhong	li	mean value theorem (in calculus)
中元普渡	zhong	du	Ghosts' festival on 15th day of 7th moon
中元节	zhong	jie	Ghost Festival on 15th day of 7th lunar month when offerings are made to the deceased
中共中央	zhong	yang	Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, abbr. for 中國共產黨中央委員會|中国共产党中央委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Gong4 chan3 dang3 Zhong1 yang1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
中共中央办公厅	zhong	ting	General Office of the Central Committee of the CCP, which handles administrative, logistical and technical affairs for the Central Committee
中共中央宣传部	zhong	bu	Propaganda Department of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China
中共中央组织部	zhong	bu	Organization Department of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, which oversees appointments of Party members to official positions throughout China
中关村	zhong	cun	Zhongguancun neighborhood of Beijing, containing Peking University, famous for electronics shops and bookstores
中前卫	zhong	wei	center forward (soccer position)
中北大学	zhong	xue	North University of China (Shanxi)
中北部	zhong	bu	north central area
中医学	zhong	xue	traditional Chinese medicine; TCM
中华人民共和国	zhong	guo	People's Republic of China
中华仙鹟	zhong	weng	(bird species of China) Chinese blue flycatcher (Cyornis glaucicomans)
中华全国体育总会	zhong	hui	All-China Sports Federation
中华全国妇女联合会	zhong	hui	All-China Women's Federation (PRC, established 1949)
中华全国总工会	zhong	hui	All-China Federation of Trade Unions (ACFTU)
中华台北	zhong	bei	Chinese Taipei, name for Taiwan to which the PRC and Taiwan agreed for the purpose of participation in international events
中华字海	zhong	hai	Zhonghua Zihai, the most comprehensive Chinese character dictionary with 85,568 entries, compiled in 1994
中华攀雀	zhong	que	(bird species of China) Chinese penduline tit (Remiz consobrinus)
中华民国	zhong	guo	Republic of China
中华民族	zhong	zu	the Chinese nation; the Chinese people (collective reference to all the ethnic groups in China)
中华田园犬	zhong	quan	Chinese rural dog; indigenous dog; mongrel
中华电视	zhong	shi	Chinese Television System (CTS), Taiwan
中华短翅莺	zhong	ying	(bird species of China) Chinese bush warbler (Locustella tacsanowskia)
中华秋沙鸭	zhong	ya	(bird species of China) scaly-sided merganser (Mergus squamatus)
中华航空公司	zhong	si	China Airlines (Taiwan); abbr. to 華航|华航[Hua2 hang2]
中华苏维埃共和国	zhong	guo	Chinese Soviet Republic (1931-1937)
中华鹧鸪	zhong	gu	(bird species of China) Chinese francolin (Francolinus pintadeanus)
中华龙鸟	zhong	niao	Sinosauropteryx, a small dinosaur that lived in what is now northeastern China during the early Cretaceous period
中南半岛	zhong	dao	Indochina
中南海	zhong	hai	Zhongnanhai, palace adjacent to the Forbidden City, now the central headquarters of the Communist Party and the State Council
中南部	zhong	bu	south central region
中卫市	zhong	shi	Zhongwei, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
中印半岛	zhong	dao	Indochina
中压管	zhong	guan	medium pressure tube; middle pressure hose (diving)
中原区	zhong	qu	Zhongyuan, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
中原大学	zhong	xue	Chung Yuan Christian University, in Taiwan
中古汉语	zhong	yu	Middle Chinese (linguistics)
中向性格	zhong	ge	ambiversion; ambiverted
中和剂	zhong	ji	neutralizing agent; neutralizer
中和市	zhong	shi	Zhonghe or Chungho city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
中和抗体	zhong	ti	(immunology) neutralizing antibody
中国东方航空	zhong	kong	China Eastern Airlines
中国中央电视台	zhong	tai	China Central Television (CCTV), PRC state TV network
中国中心主义	zhong	yi	Sinocentrism
中国交通建设	zhong	she	China Communications Construction Company
中国交通运输协会	zhong	hui	China Communications and Transportation Association (CCTA)
中国产	zhong	chan	made in China; home-grown (talent)
中国人	zhong	ren	Chinese person
中国人大	zhong	da	China National People's Congress
中国人权组织	zhong	zhi	Human Rights in China (New York-based expatriate PRC organization)
中国人民大学	zhong	xue	Renmin University of China
中国人民志愿军	zhong	jun	the Chinese People's Volunteer Army deployed by China to aid North Korea in 1950
中国人民解放军	zhong	jun	People's Liberation Army (PLA), the unified armed forces of the People's Republic of China
中国人民解放军海军	zhong	jun	Chinese People's Liberation Army Navy (PLAN)
中国人民解放军空军	zhong	jun	People's Liberation Army Air Force (PLAAF)
中国人民银行	zhong	hang	People's Bank of China
中国伊斯兰教协会	zhong	hui	Chinese Patriotic Islamic Association
中国传媒大学	zhong	xue	Communication University of China (CUC), the highest institute of radio, film and television education in China
中国作协	zhong	xie	China Writers Association (CWA) (abbr. for 中國作家協會|中国作家协会[Zhong1 guo2 Zuo4 jia1 Xie2 hui4])
中国作家协会	zhong	hui	China Writers Association (CWA)
中国光大银行	zhong	hang	China Everbright Bank
中国共产主义青年团	zhong	tuan	Communist Youth League of China; China Youth League
中国共产党	zhong	dang	Communist Party of China
中国农业银行	zhong	hang	Agricultural Bank of China
中国制造	zhong	zao	made in China
中国剩余定理	zhong	li	Chinese remainder theorem (math.)
中国化	zhong	hua	to sinicize; to take on Chinese characteristics
中国北方工业公司	zhong	si	China North Industries Corporation (Norinco)
中国同盟会	zhong	hui	Tongmenghui, Sun Yat-sen's alliance for democracy, founded 1905, became the Guomindang 國民黨|国民党 in 1912
中国商用飞机	zhong	ji	COMAC (Chinese aeronautics company)
中国商飞	zhong	fei	COMAC, Chinese aeronautics company (abbr. for 中國商用飛機|中国商用飞机[Zhong1 guo2 Shang1 yong4 Fei1 ji1])
中国国家博物馆	zhong	guan	National Museum of China
中国国家原子能机构	zhong	gou	China Atomic Energy Agency (CAEA)
中国国家航天局	zhong	ju	China National Space Administration (CNSA)
中国国际广播电台	zhong	tai	China Radio International; CRI
中国国际航空公司	zhong	si	Air China Ltd.
中国地球物理学会	zhong	hui	Chinese Geophysical Society
中国地质大学	zhong	xue	China University of Geosciences
中国地质调查局	zhong	ju	China Geological Survey (CGS)
中国地震台网	zhong	wang	China Earthquake Networks Center (CENC), the information hub of the China Earthquake Administration 中國地震局|中国地震局[Zhong1 guo2 Di4 zhen4 ju2]
中国地震局	zhong	ju	China Earthquake Administration (CEA); State Seismological Bureau
中国城	zhong	cheng	Chinatown
中国大蝾螈	zhong	yuan	Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus davidianus)
中国大陆	zhong	lu	mainland China
中国天主教爱国会	zhong	hui	Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association
中国好声音	zhong	yin	The Voice of China, PRC reality talent show
中国小说史略	zhong	lve	Concise History of the Chinese Novel by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
中国工商银行	zhong	hang	Industrial and Commercial Bank of China (ICBC)
中国工程院	zhong	yuan	Chinese Academy of Engineering
中国左翼作家联盟	zhong	meng	the League of the Left-Wing Writers, an organization of writers formed in China in 1930
中国广播公司	zhong	si	Broadcasting Corporation of China (BCC)
中国建设银行	zhong	hang	China Construction Bank
中国式	zhong	shi	Chinese style; à la chinoise
中国政法大学	zhong	xue	China University of Political Science and Law, located in Beijing
中国教育网	zhong	wang	abbr. for 中國教育和科研計算機網|中国教育和科研计算机网[Zhong1 guo2 Jiao4 yu4 he2 Ke1 yan2 Ji4 suan4 ji1 Wang3]
中国文联	zhong	lian	abbr. for 中國文學藝術界聯合會|中国文学艺术界联合会, China Federation of Literary and Art Circles (CFLAC)
中国新民党	zhong	dang	New Democracy Party of China, a short-lived party founded in 2007 by human rights activist Guo Quan, who was jailed in 2009
中国新闻社	zhong	she	China News Service (CNS), a state-owned news agency in China, focused primarily on providing news to Chinese communities outside mainland China
中国新闻网	zhong	wang	website of China News Service 中國新聞社|中国新闻社[Zhong1 guo2 Xin1 wen2 she4] (chinanews.com)
中国日报	zhong	bao	China Daily (an English language newspaper)
中国时报	zhong	bao	China Times (newspaper published in Taiwan)
中国林蛙	zhong	wa	Chinese brown frog (Rana chensinensis)
中国核能总公司	zhong	si	China National Nuclear Corporation (CNNC)
中国梦	zhong	meng	Chinese Dream (i.e. the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation), term associated with Xi Jinping 習近平|习近平[Xi2 Jin4 ping2]
中国残疾人联合会	zhong	hui	China Disabled Persons' Federation
中国残联	zhong	lian	China Disabled Persons' Federation (abbr. for 中國殘疾人聯合會|中国残疾人联合会[Zhong1 guo2 Can2 ji2 ren2 Lian2 he2 hui4])
中国民主促进会	zhong	hui	China Association for Promoting Democracy (one of the non-Communist political parties in China)
中国民主同盟	zhong	meng	China Democratic League, one of the eight legally recognized non-CCP political parties in China
中国民主建国会	zhong	hui	China Democratic National Construction Association
中国民用航空局	zhong	ju	Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC)
中国气象局	zhong	ju	China Meteorological Administration (CMA)
中国法学会	zhong	hui	China Law Society
中国海	zhong	hai	the China Seas (the seas of the Western Pacific Ocean, around China: Bohai Sea, Yellow Sea, East China Sea, South China Sea)
中国海事局	zhong	ju	PRC Maritime Safety Agency
中国海洋石油总公司	zhong	si	CNOOC; China National Offshore Oil Corporation
中国消费者协会	zhong	hui	China Consumers' Association (CCA)
中国特色社会主义	zhong	yi	socialism with Chinese characteristics, phrase introduced by the CCP in 1986 to refer to its ideological model, embracing the economic reforms of the post-Mao era
中国电信	zhong	xin	China Telecom (Chinese company providing mobile phone service)
中国电视公司	zhong	si	China Television Company (CTV), Taiwan
中国画	zhong	hua	Chinese painting
中国白眉朱雀	zhong	que	(bird species of China) Chinese white-browed rosefinch (Carpodacus dubius)
中国石化	zhong	hua	China Petroleum and Chemical Corporation, Sinopec
中国社会科学院	zhong	yuan	Chinese Academy of Social Sciences (CASS)
中国科学院	zhong	yuan	Chinese Academy of Science
中国移动通信	zhong	xin	China Mobile (PRC state telecommunications company)
中国籍	zhong	ji	Chinese (i.e. of Chinese nationality)
中国红	zhong	hong	vermilion
中国经营报	zhong	bao	China Business (a Beijing newspaper)
中国结	zhong	jie	traditional Chinese decorative knot
中国美术馆	zhong	guan	National Art Museum of China
中国联合航空	zhong	kong	China United Airlines
中国联通	zhong	tong	China Unicom
中国致公党	zhong	dang	(PRC) China Zhi Gong Party, one of the eight legally recognized minor political parties following the direction of the CCP
中国航天工业公司	zhong	si	China Aerospace Corporation, forerunner of China Aerospace Science and Technology Corporation (CASC) 中國航天科技集團公司|中国航天科技集团公司
中国航海日	zhong	ri	Maritime Day (July 11th) commemorating the first voyage of Zheng He 鄭和|郑和[Zheng4 He2] in 1405 AD
中国航空工业公司	zhong	si	Aviation Industries of China (AVIC)
中国航空运输协会	zhong	hui	China Air Transport Association (CATA)
中国船舶工业集团	zhong	tuan	China State Shipbuilding Corporation (CSSC)
中国船舶贸易公司	zhong	si	China Shipbuilding Trading Corporation (CSTC)
中国菜	zhong	cai	Chinese cuisine
中国证券报	zhong	bao	China Securities Journal
中国证监会	zhong	hui	China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) (abbr. for 中國證券監督管理委員會|中国证券监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Zheng4 quan4 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
中国话	zhong	hua	(spoken) Chinese language
中国进出口银行	zhong	hang	The Export-Import Bank of China (state-owned bank)
中国通	zhong	tong	China watcher; an expert on China; an old China hand
中国邮政	zhong	zheng	China Post (Chinese postal service)
中国钹	zhong	bo	China cymbal (drum kit component)
中国银联	zhong	lian	China UnionPay (CUP), China's only domestic bank card organization
中国银行	zhong	hang	Bank of China (BoC)
中国长城工业公司	zhong	si	China Great Wall Industry Corporation (CGWIC)
中国青年报	zhong	bao	China Youth Daily
中国风	zhong	feng	Chinese style; chinoiserie
中国餐馆症候群	zhong	qun	Chinese restaurant syndrome
中国鸟类学会	zhong	hui	China Ornithological Society
中圈套	zhong	tao	to fall in a trap
中复电讯	zhong	xun	Zoomflight Telecom (Chinese company)
中央专制集权	zhong	quan	centralized autocratic rule
中央企业	zhong	ye	centrally-managed state-owned enterprise (PRC)
中央党校	zhong	xiao	Central Party School, China's highest institution specifically for training Party cadres, founded in 1933
中央全会	zhong	hui	plenary session of the Central Committee
中央军事委员会	zhong	hui	(PRC) Central Military Commission
中央军委	zhong	wei	Central Military Committee (CMC)
中央凹	zhong	ao	fovea centralis (depression in the macula retina, most sensitive optic region)
中央分车带	zhong	dai	median strip; central reservation (on a divided road)
中央厨房	zhong	fang	central kitchen
中央处理单元	zhong	yuan	(computing) central processing unit (CPU)
中央处理器	zhong	qi	(computing) central processing unit (CPU)
中央处理机	zhong	ji	(computing) central processing unit (CPU)
中央委员会	zhong	hui	Central Committee
中央宣传部	zhong	bu	Central Propaganda Department (abbr. for 中國共產黨中央委員會宣傳部|中国共产党中央委员会宣传部[Zhong1 guo2 Gong4 chan3 dang3 Zhong1 yang1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4 Xuan1 chuan2 bu4])
中央广播电台	zhong	tai	Radio Taiwan International (RTI)
中央情报局	zhong	ju	US Central Intelligence Agency, CIA
中央戏剧学院	zhong	yuan	Central Academy of Drama
中央执行委员会	zhong	hui	Central Executive Committee
中央政府	zhong	fu	central government
中央日报	zhong	bao	Central Daily News
中央民族大学	zhong	xue	Central University for Nationalities
中央汇金	zhong	jin	central finance; Chinese monetary fund
中央海岭	zhong	ling	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
中央电视台	zhong	tai	China Central Television (CCTV), PRC state TV network
中央直辖市	zhong	shi	municipality, namely: Beijing 北京, Tianjin 天津, Shanghai 上海 and Chongqing 重慶|重庆, the first level administrative subdivision; province level city; also called directly governed city
中央省	zhong	sheng	Töv Province (Töv Aimag) of Mongolia; Central Province (the name of provinces in various nations)
中央研究院	zhong	yuan	Academia Sinica, research institution headquartered in Taipei
中央社	zhong	she	Central News Agency (Taiwan)
中央空调	zhong	tiao	central air conditioning; (fig.) (neologism) ladies' man (contrasted with 暖男[nuan3 nan2], a guy who is attentive to his partner rather than to all and sundry)
中央财经大学	zhong	xue	Central University of Finance and Economics, Beijing
中央邦	zhong	bang	Madhya Pradesh, central Indian state
中央银行	zhong	hang	central bank
中央集权	zhong	quan	centralized state power
中央音乐学院	zhong	yuan	Central Conservatory of Music
中子俘获	zhong	huo	neutron capture
中子射线摄影	zhong	ying	neutron radiography
中子弹	zhong	dan	neutron bomb
中子数	zhong	shu	neutron number
中子星	zhong	xing	neutron star
中子源	zhong	yuan	neutron source
中学生	zhong	sheng	middle-school student; high school student
中宁县	zhong	xian	Zhongning, a county in Zhongwei City 中衛市|中卫市[Zhong1 wei4 Shi4], Ningxia
中宣部	zhong	bu	Publicity Department of the CCP (abbr. for 中國共產黨中央委員會宣傳部|中国共产党中央委员会宣传部[Zhong1 guo2 Gong4 chan3 dang3 Zhong1 yang1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4 Xuan1 chuan2 bu4])
中密度纤维板	zhong	ban	medium-density fiberboard (MDF); abbr. to 中纖板|中纤板[zhong1 xian1 ban3]
中小企业	zhong	ye	small and medium enterprise
中小型企业	zhong	ye	small or medium size enterprise (SME)
中小学	zhong	xue	middle and elementary school
中山公园	zhong	yuan	Zhongshan Park, the name of numerous parks in China, honoring Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山[Sun1 Zhong1 shan1]
中山区	zhong	qu	Zhongshan or Chungshan District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan; Zhongshan District of Dalian 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 shi4], Liaoning; Chungshan District of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 shi4], Taiwan
中山大学	zhong	xue	Sun Yat-sen University (Guangzhou); Sun Yat-sen University (Kaohsiung); Sun Yat-sen University (Moscow), founded in 1925 as training ground for Chinese communists
中山市	zhong	shi	Zhongshan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
中山成彬	zhong	bin	NAKAYAMA Nariaki (1943–), right-wing Japanese politician and prominent denier of Japanese war crimes
中山服	zhong	fu	Chinese tunic suit; Mao jacket; CL:件[jian4]
中山狼传	zhong	zhuan	The Wolf of Zhongshan, fable by Ma Zhongxi 馬中錫|马中锡[Ma3 Zhong1 xi1]
中山装	zhong	zhuang	Chinese tunic suit, a jacket style introduced by Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山[Sun1 Zhong1 shan1] and often worn by Mao Zedong
中山陵	zhong	ling	Dr Sun Yat-sen's mausoleum in Nanjing
中巴士	zhong	shi	minibus
中庸之道	zhong	dao	doctrine of the mean; moderation in all things
中式英语	zhong	yu	Chinglish
中微子	zhong	zi	(particle physics) neutrino
中心区	zhong	qu	central district
中心对称	zhong	chen	(geometry) point symmetry
中心点	zhong	dian	center; central point; focus
中心矩	zhong	ju	(statistics) central moment
中心粒	zhong	li	(cell biology) centriole
中心语	zhong	yu	qualified word
中性笔	zhong	bi	rollerball pen
中性粒细胞	zhong	bao	neutrophil (the most common type of white blood cell)
中情局	zhong	ju	US Central Intelligence Agency, CIA (abbr. for 中央情報局|中央情报局[Zhong1 yang1 Qing2 bao4 ju2])
中成药	zhong	yao	prepared prescription (Chinese medicine)
中括号	zhong	hao	square brackets [ ]
中控面板	zhong	ban	center dash console; central dashboard
中提琴	zhong	qin	viola
中文标准交换码	zhong	ma	CSIC, Chinese standard interchange code used from 1992
中新世	zhong	shi	Miocene (geological epoch from 24m-5m years ago)
中新社	zhong	she	China News Service (CNS) (abbr. for 中國新聞社|中国新闻社[Zhong1 guo2 Xin1 wen2 she4])
中新网	zhong	wang	ChinaNews (China News Service)
中方县	zhong	xian	Zhongfang, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
中旅社	zhong	she	China Travel Service (CTS), state-owned travel company
中日关系	zhong	xi	Sino-Japanese relations
中日韩	zhong	han	China, Japan and Korea
中日韩统一表意文字	zhong	zi	CJK Unified Ideographs
中日韩越	zhong	yue	China, Japan, Korea, and Vietnam
中期选举	zhong	ju	midterm election
中杓鹬	zhong	yu	(bird species of China) Eurasian whimbrel; common whimbrel (Numenius phaeopus)
中枢神经	zhong	jing	(anatomy) central nervous system
中枢神经系统	zhong	tong	central nervous system, CNS
中概股	zhong	gu	China concepts stock (stock in a Chinese company that trades on an exchange outside China or in Hong Kong) (abbr. for 中國概念股|中国概念股[Zhong1 guo2 gai4 nian4 gu3])
中正区	zhong	qu	Zhongzheng District of Taipei 台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4] or Keelung 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4]
中正纪念堂	zhong	tang	Chiang Kai-shek Memorial Hall, Taipei
中毒性	zhong	xing	poisonous; toxic
中毒者	zhong	zhe	poisoned person (food poisoning, drug overdose or toxic exposure); (coll.) addict; junkie; enthusiast (video games, shopping etc)
中气层	zhong	ceng	(meteorology) mesosphere
中气层顶	zhong	ding	(meteorology) mesopause
中江县	zhong	xian	Zhongjiang, a county in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
中沙群岛	zhong	dao	Macclesfield Bank, series of reefs in the South China Sea southeast of Hainan Island
中法战争	zhong	zheng	Sino-French War (1883-1885) (concerning French seizure of Vietnam)
中法新约	zhong	yue	treaty of Tianjin of 1885 ceding Vietnam to France
中洋脊	zhong	ji	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
中流砥柱	zhong	zhu	mainstay; cornerstone; tower of strength
中海油	zhong	you	China National Offshore Oil Corporation
中港台	zhong	tai	China, Hong Kong and Taiwan (abbr.)
中源地震	zhong	zhen	medium depth earthquake (with epicenter 70-300 km deep)
中爪哇	zhong	wa	Central Java, province of Indonesia
中牟县	zhong	xian	Zhongmu, a county in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
中生代	zhong	dai	Mesozoic (geological era 250–65 million years ago, covering the Triassic, Jurassic, and Cretaceous)
中白鹭	zhong	lu	(bird species of China) medium egret (Ardea intermedia)
中盘商	zhong	shang	distributor; wholesaler; middleman
中盘股	zhong	gu	(share trading) mid-cap
中看不中用	zhong	yong	impressive-looking but useless
中短债	zhong	zhai	short- or medium-term loan
中石化	zhong	hua	China Petroleum & Chemical Corporation (Sinopec Corp.)
中石器时代	zhong	dai	Mesolithic Era
中研院	zhong	yuan	Academia Sinica (abbr. for 中央研究院[Zhong1 yang1 Yan2 jiu1 yuan4])
中秋节	zhong	jie	the Mid-Autumn Festival on 15th of 8th lunar month
中科院	zhong	yuan	abbr. for 中國社會科學院|中国社会科学院[Zhong1 guo2 She4 hui4 Ke1 xue2 yuan4], Chinese Academy of Sciences (CAS)
中空玻璃	zhong	li	double glazing
中立国	zhong	guo	neutral country
中立性	zhong	xing	impartiality; neutrality
中立派	zhong	pai	centrist; the centrist faction
中站区	zhong	qu	Zhongzhan, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
中等专业学校	zhong	xiao	vocational secondary school; technical secondary school
中等专业教育	zhong	yu	technical middle school education
中等师范学校	zhong	xiao	secondary normal school (secondary school that trains kindergarten and elementary school teachers)
中等技术学校	zhong	xiao	technical middle school; polytechnic
中等教育	zhong	yu	secondary education
中筋面粉	zhong	fen	all-purpose flour; flour for making dumplings and noodles
中箭落马	zhong	ma	lit. to be struck by an arrow and fall from one's horse; to suffer a serious setback (idiom)
中篇小说	zhong	shuo	novella
中纪委	zhong	wei	Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), organization within the CCP which investigates corruption and other wrongdoing among Party cadres; abbr. for 中共中央紀律檢查委員會|中共中央纪律检查委员会
中组部	zhong	bu	(CCP) Organization Department (abbr. for 中共中央組織部|中共中央组织部[Zhong1 gong4 Zhong1 yang1 Zu3 zhi1 bu4])
中继器	zhong	qi	repeater
中继站	zhong	zhan	relay station
中继资料	zhong	liao	metadata
中美文化研究中心	zhong	xin	the Hopkins-Nanjing Center, located in Nanjing, est. 1986 (formally, the Johns Hopkins University – Nanjing University Center for Chinese and American Studies)
中美洲	zhong	zhou	Central America
中老年	zhong	nian	middle and old age
中老年人	zhong	ren	middle-aged and elderly people
中耳炎	zhong	yan	inflammation of middle ear; otitis media
中联办	zhong	ban	Liaison Office of the Central People's Government in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (abbr. for 中央人民政府駐香港特別行政區聯絡辦公室|中央人民政府驻香港特别行政区联络办公室[Zhong1 yang1 Ren2 min2 Zheng4 fu3 Zhu4 Xiang1 gang3 Te4 bie2 Xing2 zheng4 qu1 Lian2 luo4 Ban4 gong1 shi4]) or the equivalent office in Macao
中联航	zhong	hang	China United Airlines, abbr. for 中國聯合航空|中国联合航空[Zhong1 guo2 Lian2 he2 Hang2 kong1]
中胚层	zhong	ceng	mesoderm (cell lineage in embryology)
中草药	zhong	yao	Chinese herbal medicine
中西区	zhong	qu	Central and Western district of Hong Kong
中西医	zhong	yi	Chinese and Western medicine; a doctor trained in Chinese and Western medicine
中西医结合	zhong	he	to combine traditional Chinese and Western medicine
中西合并	zhong	bing	Chinese-Western fusion
中西合璧	zhong	bi	harmonious combination of Chinese and Western elements (idiom)
中西部	zhong	bu	midwest
中规中矩	zhong	ju	conforming with the norms of society
中贼鸥	zhong	ou	(bird species of China) pomarine jaeger (Stercorarius pomarinus)
中越战争	zhong	zheng	Sino-Vietnamese War (1979)
中转柜台	zhong	tai	transfer desk; correspondence desk
中转站	zhong	zhan	transit hub; transport hub; interchange
中轴线	zhong	xian	central axis (line)
中途之家	zhong	jia	(Tw) halfway house (for released prisoners, victims of domestic violence etc); (Tw) (for animals) foster home providing temporary care pending adoption or release
中途岛	zhong	dao	Midway Islands
中途岛战役	zhong	yi	Battle of Midway, June 1942
中途退场	zhong	chang	to leave in the middle of the play; (fig.) to leave before the matter is concluded
中郎将	zhong	jiang	general of the household, a mid-ranking military officer responsible for palace or court duties
中量级	zhong	ji	middleweight (boxing etc)
中长跑	zhong	pao	middle distance race
中间人	zhong	ren	intermediary; mediator
中间人攻击	zhong	ji	(computing) man-in-the-middle attack
中间件	zhong	jian	middleware
中间名	zhong	ming	middle name; second given name
中间商	zhong	shang	middleman; broker
中间层	zhong	ceng	(meteorology) mesosphere
中间派	zhong	pai	moderate faction; party of compromise; middle ground
中间神经元	zhong	yuan	interneuron
中间纤维	zhong	wei	intermediate filament
中间路线	zhong	xian	middle road (in politics)
中间音	zhong	yin	(phonetics) medial
中阳县	zhong	xian	Zhongyang, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
中青年	zhong	nian	middle-aged
中非共和国	zhong	guo	Central African Republic
中餐馆	zhong	guan	Chinese restaurant
中饱私囊	zhong	nang	to stuff one's pockets; to take bribes
丰俭由人	feng	ren	fancy or simple according to one's budget
丰功伟绩	feng	ji	glorious achievement (idiom)
丰南区	feng	qu	Fengnan, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
丰台区	feng	qu	Fengtai, an inner district of southwest Beijing
丰城市	feng	shi	Fengcheng, a county-level city in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
丰宁县	feng	xian	see 豐寧滿族自治縣|丰宁满族自治县[Feng1 ning2 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
丰宁满族自治县	feng	xian	Fengning Manchu Autonomous County, in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
丰富多彩	feng	cai	richly colorful
丰林县	feng	xian	Fenglin, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
丰水期	feng	qi	period of plentiful water supply, with increased river flow due to snowmelt or higher rainfall
丰泽区	feng	qu	Fengze, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
丰润区	feng	qu	Fengrun, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
丰溪里	feng	li	Punggye-ri, a village in Kilju County, North Hamgyong Province, North Korea, near the Punggye-ri Nuclear Test Site
丰满区	feng	qu	Fengman, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
丰臣秀吉	feng	ji	TOYOTOMI Hideyoshi (1536-1598), Japanese warlord, undisputed ruler of Japan 1590-1598
丰衣足食	feng	shi	having ample food and clothing (idiom); well fed and clothed
丰都县	feng	xian	Fengdu, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
丰镇市	feng	shi	Fengzhen, a county-level city in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
丰顺县	feng	xian	Fengshun, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
串串狗	chuan	gou	(coll.) mixed-breed dog; mutt
串串猫	chuan	mao	(coll.) mixed-breed cat; moggy
串串香	chuan	xiang	Sichuan-style hotpot skewers
串亲访友	chuan	you	to call on friends and relations (idiom)
串处理	chuan	li	string processing (computing)
串行口	chuan	kou	serial port (computing)
串通一气	chuan	qi	to act in collusion (idiom)
串门儿	chuan	r	erhua variant of 串門|串门[chuan4 men2]
串门子	chuan	zi	see 串門|串门[chuan4 men2]
临别赠言	lin	yan	words of advice on parting
临危受命	lin	ming	(idiom) to take on a leadership role at a time of crisis
临危授命	lin	ming	to sacrifice one's life in a crisis
临场感	lin	gan	the feeling of actually being there
临城县	lin	xian	Lincheng, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
临夏县	lin	xian	Linxia, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
临夏回族自治州	lin	zhou	Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture, in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
临夏州	lin	zhou	see 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
临夏市	lin	shi	Linxia, a county-level city in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
临安区	lin	qu	Lin'an, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
临屯郡	lin	jun	Lintun Commandery (108 BC–c. 300 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
临川区	lin	qu	Linchuan, a district of Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
临川羡鱼	lin	yu	see 臨淵羨魚，不如退而結網|临渊羡鱼，不如退而结网[lin2 yuan1 xian4 yu2 , bu4 ru2 tui4 er2 jie2 wang3]
临平区	lin	qu	Linping, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
临床医学	lin	xue	clinical medicine
临床死亡	lin	wang	clinical death
临床特征	lin	zheng	clinical characteristic; diagnostic trait
临时保姆	lin	mu	temporary caregiver; babysitter
临时分居	lin	ju	trial separation
临时工	lin	gong	temporary worker; temp; temporary work
临时抱佛脚	lin	jiao	(idiom) see 抱佛腳|抱佛脚[bao4 fo2 jiao3]
临时政府	lin	fu	provisional government
临时演员	lin	yuan	an extra (in a movie)
临时贷款	lin	kuan	bridging loan
临月儿	lin	r	the month childbirth is due
临朐县	lin	xian	Linqu, a county in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
临桂区	lin	qu	Lingui, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
临武县	lin	xian	Linwu, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
临死不怯	lin	qie	equanimity in the face of death; to face dangers with assurance
临江市	lin	shi	Linjiang, a county-level city in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
临汾市	lin	shi	Linfen, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
临沂市	lin	shi	Linyi, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
临沧市	lin	shi	Lincang, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
临沭县	lin	xian	Linshu, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
临河区	lin	qu	Linhe, a district of Bayannur City 巴彥淖爾市|巴彦淖尔市[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
临河羡鱼	lin	yu	see 臨淵羨魚，不如退而結網|临渊羡鱼，不如退而结网[lin2 yuan1 xian4 yu2 , bu4 ru2 tui4 er2 jie2 wang3]
临泉县	lin	xian	Linquan, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
临泽县	lin	xian	Linze, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
临洮县	lin	xian	Lintao, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
临海市	lin	shi	Linhai, a county-level city in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
临海水土志	lin	zhi	Seaboard Geographic Gazetteer (c. 275) by Shen Ying 沈瑩|沈莹
临淄区	lin	qu	Linzi, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
临清市	lin	shi	Linqing, a county-level city in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
临渊羡鱼	lin	yu	see 臨淵羨魚，不如退而結網|临渊羡鱼，不如退而结网[lin2 yuan1 xian4 yu2 , bu4 ru2 tui4 er2 jie2 wang3]
临渭区	lin	qu	Linwei, a district of Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
临渴掘井	lin	jing	lit. not to dig a well until one is thirsty; to be unprepared and seek help at the last minute (idiom)
临渴穿井	lin	jing	lit. face thirst and dig a well (idiom); fig. not to make adequate provision; to act when it is too late
临湘市	lin	shi	Linxiang, a county-level city in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
临漳县	lin	xian	Linzhang, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
临潭县	lin	xian	Lintan, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
临潼区	lin	qu	Lintong, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
临澧县	lin	xian	Linli, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
临猗县	lin	xian	Linyi, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
临界点	lin	dian	critical point; boundary point
临界状态	lin	tai	critical state; criticality
临界质量	lin	liang	critical mass
临终关怀	lin	huai	end-of-life care; hospice care; palliative care
临翔区	lin	qu	Linxiang, a district of Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
临街房	lin	fang	the store front; the part of a house facing the street serving as a store
临西县	lin	xian	Linxi, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
临邑县	lin	xian	Linyi, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
临门一脚	lin	jiao	to try to score (a goal); final push (at a critical juncture); the final leg of sth
临阵磨枪	lin	qiang	(lit.) to sharpen one's spear only before going into battle (idiom); (fig.) to make preparations only at the last moment
临阵脱逃	lin	tao	see 臨陣退縮|临阵退缩[lin2 zhen4 tui4 suo1]
临阵退缩	lin	suo	to shrink back as the time for battle approaches (idiom); to get cold feet
临颍县	lin	xian	Linying, a county in Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
临高县	lin	xian	Lingao County, Hainan
丹东市	dan	shi	Dandong, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
丹凤县	dan	xian	Danfeng, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
丹凤眼	dan	yan	red phoenix eyes (eyes whose outer corners incline upwards)
丹寨县	dan	xian	Danzhai, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
丹尼尔	dan	er	Daniel (name)
丹尼斯	dan	si	Dennis (name)
丹尼索瓦人	dan	ren	Denisovan, an extinct species of human
丹巴县	dan	xian	Danba, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
丹布朗	dan	lang	Dan Brown (American novelist)
丹徒区	dan	qu	Dantu, a district of Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
丹棱县	dan	xian	Danling, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
丹江口	dan	kou	see 丹江口市[Dan1 jiang1 kou3 Shi4]
丹江口市	dan	shi	Danjiangkou, a county-level city in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
丹阳市	dan	shi	Danyang, a county-level city in Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
丹霞地貌	dan	mao	Danxia landform (red conglomerate and sandstone)
丹霞山	dan	shan	Mt Danxia in Shaoguan 韶關|韶关[Shao2 guan1], Guangdong
丹顶鹤	dan	he	(bird species of China) red-crowned crane (Grus japonensis)
丹麦包	dan	bao	Danish pastry
为之一振	wei	zhen	to be energized by it; to receive a boost from it
为五斗米折腰	wei	yao	(allusion to Tao Qian 陶潛|陶潜[Tao2 Qian2], who used this phrase when he resigned from government service rather than show subservience to a visiting inspector) to bow and scrape for five pecks of rice (that being a part of his salary as a local magistrate); (fig.) to compromise one's principles for the sake of a salary
为人师表	wei	biao	to serve as a model for others (idiom); to be a worthy teacher
为人民服务	wei	wu	Serve the People!, CCP political slogan
为什么	wei	me	why?; for what reason?
为仁不富	wei	fu	(idiom) benevolent people can't get rich
为善最乐	wei	le	doing good deeds brings the greatest joy (idiom)
为富不仁	wei	ren	(idiom) to be wealthy and heartless
为富不仁为仁不富	wei	fu	(proverb, from Mencius) the rich are not benevolent, and the benevolent are not rich
为己任	wei	ren	to make it one's business; to take upon oneself to
为德不卒	wei	zu	to start on virtue but give up (idiom); to fail to carry things through; lack of sticking power; short attention span
为德不终	wei	zhong	to start on virtue but give up (idiom); to fail to carry things through; lack of sticking power; short attention span
为所欲为	wei	wei	(idiom) to do whatever one pleases
为数不多	wei	duo	not many; only a few
为时不晚	wei	wan	it is not too late (idiom)
为时已晚	wei	wan	already too late
为时未晚	wei	wan	it is not too late (idiom)
为时过早	wei	zao	premature; too soon
为民除害	wei	hai	(idiom) to rid the people of a scourge
为爱鼓掌	wei	zhang	(neologism) (slang) to have sex
为的是	wei	shi	for the sake of; for the purpose of
为虎作伥	wei	chang	(idiom) to act as accomplice to a villain; to assist in wrongdoing
为非作歹	wei	dai	to break the law and commit crimes (idiom); malefactor; evildoer; to perpetrate outrages
主人公	zhu	gong	hero (of a novel or film); main protagonist
主人翁	zhu	weng	master (of the house); main character in a novel etc; hero or heroine
主体思想	zhu	xiang	Juche Idea (North Korean ideology of political, economic and military independence)
主保圣人	zhu	ren	patron saint
主力军	zhu	jun	main force (military); (fig.) the group or element with the most impact; mainstay
主力舰	zhu	jian	battleship
主办国	zhu	guo	host country
主办方	zhu	fang	organizer; host
主办权	zhu	quan	the right to host (an international meeting)
主动免疫	zhu	yi	active immunity
主动收入	zhu	ru	(finance) active income
主动权	zhu	quan	initiative (as in "seize the initiative"); advantageous position that allows one to call the shots
主动脉	zhu	mai	aorta; principal artery
主和弦	zhu	xian	tonic triad; triad of the home key
主和派	zhu	pai	the peace faction; doves
主品牌	zhu	pai	umbrella brand (marketing)
主宰者	zhu	zhe	ruler
主宾谓	zhu	wei	subject-object-verb SOV or subject-object-predicate sentence pattern (e.g. in Japanese or Korean grammar)
主导性	zhu	xing	leadership
主导权	zhu	quan	control; dominant position; decision-making power
主席台	zhu	tai	rostrum; platform; CL:個|个[ge4]
主席团	zhu	tuan	presidium
主席国	zhu	guo	chair country; country holding revolving presidency
主干线	zhu	xian	trunk line (of road, network etc); backbone (cable)
主干网络	zhu	luo	core network
主干网路	zhu	lu	core network; backbone network
主序带	zhu	dai	(astronomy) main sequence
主序星	zhu	xing	(astronomy) main-sequence star
主心骨	zhu	gu	backbone; mainstay; pillar
主战派	zhu	pai	the pro-war faction; hawks
主打品牌	zhu	pai	flagship brand
主打歌	zhu	ge	(music) lead single; the main song promoted from an album
主承销商	zhu	shang	lead underwriter
主持人	zhu	ren	host; master of ceremonies; (TV or radio) presenter; anchor; (Tw) (research project) principal investigator (PI); program director
主教座堂	zhu	tang	cathedral
主旋律	zhu	lv	(music) theme; principal melody; (fig.) central theme; main idea; (of a movie) created with the purpose of promoting Party values and point of view
主日学	zhu	xue	Sunday School
主旨演讲	zhu	jiang	keynote speech
主显节	zhu	jie	(Christianity) Epiphany
主机名	zhu	ming	hostname (of a networked computer)
主机板	zhu	ban	motherboard
主权国家	zhu	jia	sovereign country
主治医师	zhu	shi	attending physician
主法向量	zhu	liang	principal normal vector (to a space curve)
主理人	zhu	ren	(coll.) person in charge, manager (originally, chiefly in Hong Kong, Macau); (esp.) creative director or founder of a boutique brand (newer, mainstream sense)
主祷文	zhu	wen	Lord's Prayer
主管人员	zhu	yuan	executive
主管机关	zhu	guan	the agency in charge of (e.g. a program); the relevant government body
主航道	zhu	dao	main channel
主裁判	zhu	pan	(sports) referee; umpire
主观主义	zhu	yi	subjectivism
主计室	zhu	shi	auditing department; accounting department; comptroller office
主谓句	zhu	ju	subject-predicate sentence; subject-predicate clause
主谓宾	zhu	bin	subject-verb-object SVO or subject-predicate-object sentence pattern (e.g. in Chinese grammar)
主谓结构	zhu	gou	subject-predicate construction
主车群	zhu	qun	peloton (main group of riders in a bicycle race)
主轴承	zhu	cheng	main bearing
主音吉他	zhu	ta	lead guitar
主题乐园	zhu	yuan	theme park
主题公园	zhu	yuan	theme park
主题曲	zhu	qu	theme song
主题歌	zhu	ge	theme song
主题演讲	zhu	jiang	keynote speech
主麻日	zhu	ri	(Islam) Friday, when Muslims go to the mosque before noon to attend congregational prayers
丽佳娜	li	na	Regina (name)
丽星噪鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) Bhutan laughingthrush (Trochalopteron imbricatum)
丽星鹩鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) spotted elachura (Elachura formosa)
丽水市	li	shi	Lishui, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
丽江古城	li	cheng	Lijiang old town (in Yunnan)
丽江市	li	shi	Lijiang, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
丽池卡登	li	deng	Ritz-Carlton (hotel chain)
丽色噪鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) red-winged laughingthrush (Trochalopteron formosum)
丽色奇鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) beautiful sibia (Heterophasia pulchella)
举一反三	ju	san	to raise one and infer three; to deduce many things from one case (idiom)
举不胜举	ju	ju	too numerous to list (idiom); innumerable
举世无双	ju	shuang	unrivaled (idiom); world number one; unique; unequaled
举世瞩目	ju	mu	to receive worldwide attention
举世闻名	ju	ming	world-famous (idiom)
举例来说	ju	shuo	for example
举国上下	ju	xia	the entire nation; the whole country, from the leadership to the rank and file
举手之劳	ju	lao	(lit.) the exertion of lifting one's hand (idiom); (fig.) a very slight effort
举手投足	ju	zu	one's every movement (idiom); comportment; gestures
举报者	ju	zhe	informer; snitch
举案齐眉	ju	mei	lit. to lift the tray to eyebrow level (idiom); mutual respect in a marriage
举棋不定	ju	ding	to hesitate over what move to make (idiom); to waver; to shilly-shally
举步维艰	ju	jian	to make progress only with great difficulty (idiom)
举目无亲	ju	qin	to look up and see no-one familiar (idiom); not having anyone to rely on; without a friend in the world
举贤良对策	ju	ce	Treatise 134 BC by Han dynasty philosopher Dong Zhongshu 董仲舒
举足轻重	ju	zhong	to play a critical role (idiom); influential
举隅法	ju	fa	synecdoche
乃东区	nai	qu	Nedong, a district of Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
乃堆拉	nai	la	Nathu La (Himalayan pass on Silk Road between Tibet and Indian Sikkim)
乃堆拉山口	nai	kou	Nathu La (Himalayan pass on the Silk Road between Tibet and the northeastern Indian state of Sikkim)
久仰大名	jiu	ming	I have been looking forward to meeting you for a long time (idiom)
久假不归	jiu	gui	to fail to return a borrowed item
久别重逢	jiu	feng	to meet again after a long period of separation
久攻不下	jiu	xia	to attack for a long time without success
久治县	jiu	xian	Jigzhi, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
久病成医	jiu	yi	(proverb) a long illness makes the patient into a doctor
久病成良医	jiu	yi	long illness makes the patient into a good doctor (idiom)
久经考验	jiu	yan	well tested over a long period of time (idiom); seasoned
久而久之	jiu	zhi	over time; as time passes; in the fullness of time
久负盛名	jiu	ming	seasoned; honed to perfection over centuries; special reserve
久闻大名	jiu	ming	your name has been known to me for a long time (polite)
义不容辞	yi	ci	not to be shirked without dishonor (idiom); incumbent; bounden (duty)
义乌市	yi	shi	Yiwu, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
义务工作者	yi	zhe	volunteer; voluntary worker
义务教育	yi	yu	compulsory education
义勇军	yi	jun	volunteer army
义勇军进行曲	yi	qu	March of the Volunteer Army (PRC National Anthem)
义卖会	yi	hui	bazaar
义县龙	yi	long	Yixianosaurus, genus of theropod dinosaur from Yi county 義縣|义县, Jinzhou 錦州|锦州, west Liaoning
义和乱	yi	luan	the Boxer uprising
义和团	yi	tuan	the Righteous and Harmonious Fists; the Boxers (history)
义和团运动	yi	dong	Boxer Rebellion (1900–1901), a peasant uprising that attempted to expel all foreigners from China, eventually suppressed by an international coalition
义和拳	yi	quan	the Righteous and Harmonious Fists; the Boxers (history)
义大利	yi	li	(Tw) Italy
义大利语	yi	yu	(Tw) Italian (language)
义大利面	yi	mian	(Tw) spaghetti; pasta
义安区	yi	qu	Yi'an, a district of Tongling City 銅陵市|铜陵市[Tong2 ling2 Shi4], Anhui
义愤填胸	yi	xiong	righteous indignation fills one's breast (idiom); to feel indignant at injustice
义愤填膺	yi	ying	righteous indignation fills one's breast (idiom); to feel indignant at injustice
义无反顾	yi	gu	honor does not allow one to glance back (idiom); duty-bound not to turn back; no surrender; to pursue justice with no second thoughts
义正辞严	yi	yan	(idiom) to speak forcibly out of a sense of righteousness
义父母	yi	mu	adoptive parents
义结金兰	yi	lan	to be close friends
义薄云天	yi	tian	supremely honorable and righteous
义马市	yi	shi	Yima, a county-level city in Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
之乎者也	zhi	ye	(lit.) 之[zhi1], 乎[hu1], 者[zhe3] and 也[ye3] (four grammatical particles of Classical Chinese) (idiom); (fig.) archaic expressions
之字形	zhi	xing	Z-shaped; zigzag
之字路	zhi	lu	zigzag road; switchback
之所以	zhi	yi	(after a noun N and before a predicate P) the reason why N P; Example: 我之所以討厭他|我之所以讨厌他[wo3 zhi1 suo3 yi3 tao3 yan4 ta1] "the reason why I dislike him (is ...)"
乌七八糟	wu	zao	everything in disorder (idiom); in a hideous mess; obscene
乌东德	wu	de	Wudongde, the name of a hydroelectric dam on the Jinsha River 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1] at a point where the river forms a border between Yunnan and Sichuan
乌什县	wu	xian	Uqturpan, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
乌伦古河	wu	he	Ulungur River in Xinjiang
乌伦古湖	wu	hu	Ulungur Lake in Xinjiang
乌克丽丽	wu	li	(Tw) ukulele (loanword)
乌克兰	wu	lan	Ukraine
乌克兰人	wu	ren	Ukrainian (person)
乌兰县	wu	xian	Ulan, a county in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
乌兰夫	wu	fu	Ulanhu (1906-1988), Soviet-trained Mongolian communist who became important PRC military leader
乌兰察布	wu	bu	see 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4]
乌兰察布市	wu	shi	Ulanqab, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
乌兰巴托	wu	tuo	Ulaanbaatar or Ulan Bator, capital of Mongolia
乌兰浩特	wu	te	see 烏蘭浩特市|乌兰浩特市[Wu1 lan2 hao4 te4 Shi4]
乌兰浩特市	wu	shi	Ulanhot, a county-level city in Hinggan League 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
乌兹冲锋枪	wu	qiang	Uzi submachine gun
乌兹别克	wu	ke	Uzbek; abbr. for Uzbekistan
乌兹别克人	wu	ren	Uzbek (person)
乌兹别克斯坦	wu	tan	Uzbekistan
乌兹别克族	wu	zu	the Uzbek people (race)
乌冬面	wu	mian	udon noodles
乌加利	wu	li	ugali (aka nshima)
乌压压	wu	ya	forming a dense mass
乌合之众	wu	zhong	(idiom) rabble; disorderly band
乌嘴柳莺	wu	ying	(bird species of China) large-billed leaf warbler (Phylloscopus magnirostris)
乌塌菜	wu	cai	rosette bok choy (Brassica rapa var. rosularis)
乌孙国	wu	guo	Wusun kingdom of central Asia (c. 300 BC-300 AD)
乌孜别克	wu	ke	Uzbek ethnic group
乌孜别克族	wu	zu	Uzbek ethnic group
乌孜别克语	wu	yu	Uzbek language
乌审旗	wu	qi	Uxin or Wushen banner in southwest Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
乌尔姆	wu	mu	Ulm (city in Germany)
乌尔根奇	wu	qi	Urgench, city in Uzbekistan
乌尔格	wu	ge	ancient name of Ulan Bator
乌尔禾	wu	he	see 烏爾禾區|乌尔禾区[Wu1 er3 he2 Qu1]
乌尔禾区	wu	qu	Orku, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
乌尔都语	wu	yu	Urdu (language)
乌干达	wu	da	Uganda
乌当区	wu	qu	Wudang, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
乌德勒支	wu	zhi	Utrecht
乌恰县	wu	xian	Ulugqat, a county in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
乌托邦	wu	bang	(loanword) utopia
乌拉圭	wu	gui	Uruguay
乌拉尔	wu	er	the Ural mountains in Russia, dividing Europe from Asia
乌拉尔山	wu	shan	the Ural mountains in Russia, dividing Europe from Asia
乌拉尔山脉	wu	mai	Ural Mountains
乌拉特	wu	te	Urat plain in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia; also Urat Front, Center and Rear banners
乌拉特中旗	wu	qi	Urat Center banner or Urdyn Dund khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
乌拉特前旗	wu	qi	Urat Front banner or Urdyn Ömnöd khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
乌拉特后旗	wu	qi	Urat Rear banner or Urdyn Xoit khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
乌拉特草原	wu	yuan	Urat plain in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
乌拉草	wu	cao	Carex meyeriana
乌普萨拉	wu	la	Uppsala, Swedish university city just north of Stockholm
乌来区	wu	qu	Wulai, a district of New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
乌林鸮	wu	xiao	(bird species of China) great grey owl (Strix nebulosa)
乌梁海	wu	hai	Mongol surname
乌泱乌泱	wu	yang	in great number
乌洛托品	wu	pin	hexamine (CH2)6N4
乌海市	wu	shi	Wuhai, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
乌漆墨黑	wu	hei	jet-black; pitch-dark
乌漆抹黑	wu	hei	see 烏漆墨黑|乌漆墨黑[wu1 qi1 mo4 hei1]
乌灰银鸥	wu	ou	(bird species of China) lesser black-backed gull (Larus fuscus)
乌灰鸫	wu	dong	(bird species of China) Japanese thrush (Turdus cardis)
乌灰鹞	wu	yao	(bird species of China) Montagu's harrier (Circus pygargus)
乌烟瘴气	wu	qi	(idiom) full of smoke and noxious fumes; (fig.) toxic atmosphere; chaotic environment
乌燕鸥	wu	ou	(bird species of China) sooty tern (Onychoprion fuscatus)
乌特列支	wu	zhi	Utrecht, city in Netherlands
乌纱帽	wu	mao	black gauze hat (worn by an imperial official as a sign of his position); (fig.) official post
乌翠区	wu	qu	Wucui, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
乌良哈	wu	ha	Mongol surname
乌节路	wu	lu	Orchard Road, Singapore (shopping and tourist area)
乌苏市	wu	shi	Wusu, a county-level city in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
乌苏里斯克	wu	ke	Ussuriisk city in Russian Pacific Primorsky region; previous names include 雙城子|双城子[Shuang1 cheng2 zi5] and Voroshilov 伏羅希洛夫|伏罗希洛夫
乌苏里江	wu	jiang	Ussuri River
乌西亚	wu	ya	Uzziah (son of Joram)
乌讷楚	wu	chu	Uxin or Wushen banner in southwest Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
乌达区	wu	qu	Wuda, a district of Wuhai City 烏海市|乌海市[Wu1 hai3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
乌里雅苏台	wu	tai	Uliastai, the Qing name for outer Mongolia
乌雕鸮	wu	xiao	(bird species of China) dusky eagle-owl (Ketupa coromanda)
乌饭果	wu	guo	fruit of Vaccinium bracteatum
乌骨鸡	wu	ji	black-boned chicken; silky fowl; silkie
乌鱼子	wu	zi	mullet roe (salted and dried); bottarga
乌鲁木齐	wu	qi	see 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4]; see 烏魯木齊縣|乌鲁木齐县[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Xian4]
乌鲁木齐县	wu	xian	Ürümqi, a county in Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
乌鲁木齐市	wu	shi	Ürümqi, prefecture-level city and capital of Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
乌鲁汝	wu	ru	Uluru, iconic large rock formation in central Australia, sacred to Aboriginals, a World Heritage Site; also known as Ayers Rock
乌鲁鲁	wu	lu	Uluru, massive sandstone outcrop in central Australia
乌鸟私情	wu	qing	lit. the solicitude of the crow (who provides for his old parent)(idiom); fig. filial piety
乌鸦嘴	wu	zui	crow's beak; (fig.) person who makes an inauspicious remark
乌鸦座	wu	zuo	Corvus (constellation)
乌黎雅	wu	ya	Uriah (name)
乌黑色	wu	se	black; crow-black
乌齐雅	wu	ya	Uzziah son of Amaziah, king of Judah c. 750 BC
乌龙指	wu	zhi	fat finger error (finance)
乌龙球	wu	qiu	own goal (ball sports)
乌龙茶	wu	cha	oolong tea
乌龙面	wu	mian	udon, a thick Japanese-style wheat-flour noodle
乌龟壳	wu	ke	tortoise shell
乍得湖	zha	hu	Lake Chad
乍暖还寒	zha	han	(idiom) (of early spring weather) alternating between warm and cold
乍青乍白	zha	bai	(of sb's face) turning alternately green and white
乏人照顾	fa	gu	(of a person) left unattended; not cared for
乏善可陈	fa	chen	(idiom) to be nothing to write home about
乏燃料	fa	liao	(nuclear energy) spent fuel
乏燃料棒	fa	bang	(nuclear energy) spent fuel rods
乐不可支	le	zhi	overjoyed (idiom); as pleased as punch
乐不可极	le	ji	(idiom) one should not overindulge in pleasure
乐不思蜀	le	shu	indulge in pleasure and forget home and duty (idiom)
乐业县	le	xian	Leye, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
乐东县	le	xian	Ledong Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
乐东黎族自治县	le	xian	Ledong Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
乐于助人	le	ren	(idiom) willing to help others
乐亭县	lao	xian	Laoting, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
乐华梅兰	le	lan	Leroy Merlin (PRC DIY chain)
乐呵呵	le	he	happily; giddily
乐善好施	le	shi	kind and charitable
乐在其中	le	zhong	to take pleasure in sth (idiom)
乐天派	le	pai	happy-go-lucky people; optimists
乐天知命	le	ming	to be content with what one is
乐安县	le	xian	Le'an, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
乐山市	le	shi	Leshan, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
乐平市	le	shi	Leping, a county-level city in Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
乐府诗集	yue	ji	Collection of Yuefu Songs and Ballads, compiled in the 11th century by Guo Maoqian 郭茂倩[Guo1 Mao4 qian4]
乐开花	le	hua	to burst with joy
乐施会	le	hui	Oxfam (Oxford Committee for Famine Relief)
乐昌之镜	le	jing	see 樂昌破鏡|乐昌破镜[Le4 chang1 po4 jing4]
乐昌分镜	le	jing	see 樂昌破鏡|乐昌破镜[Le4 chang1 po4 jing4]
乐昌市	le	shi	Lechang, a county-level city in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
乐昌破镜	le	jing	(lit.) the story of the broken mirror of Princess Lechang 樂昌公主|乐昌公主[Le4 chang1 Gong1 zhu3] (In the tale, the princess and her husband, fearing separation during the turbulence of war, broke a bronze mirror in half. They each kept one half as a token, with the promise to reunite by matching the pieces together. They were indeed separated, but eventually reunited, with the mirror playing a crucial role in their reunion.) (idiom); (fig.) the reunion of separated lovers or the restoration of a relationship
乐极生悲	le	bei	extreme joy turns to sorrow (idiom); Don't celebrate too soon, things could still go wrong!
乐此不倦	le	juan	see 樂此不疲|乐此不疲[le4 ci3 bu4 pi2]
乐此不疲	le	pi	(idiom) to enjoy sth and never tire of it
乐浪郡	le	jun	Lelang commandery (108 BC-313 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
乐清市	yue	shi	Yueqing, a county-level city in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
乐滋滋	le	zi	(coll.) contented; happy
乐福鞋	le	xie	loafer shoes (loanword)
乐羊羊	le	yang	Happy sheep (group of five cartoon sheep), mascot of 2010 Guangzhou Asian games 廣州亞運會|广州亚运会
乐至县	le	xian	Lezhi, a county in Ziyang City 資陽市|资阳市[Zi1 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
乐见其成	le	cheng	to look favorably on sth; would be glad see it happen
乐观主义	le	yi	optimism
乐观其成	le	cheng	to look favorably on sth; would be glad to see it happen
乐都区	le	qu	Ledu, a district of Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
乐陵市	lao	shi	Laoling, a county-level city in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
乐陶陶	le	tao	joyful; cheerful
乐颠了馅	le	xian	ecstatic; overjoyed
乒乓球	ping	qiu	table tennis; ping-pong; table tennis ball
乒乓球台	ping	tai	table-tennis table
乒乓球拍	ping	pai	ping-pong paddle
乔冠华	qiao	hua	Qiao Guanhua (1913-1973), PRC politician and diplomat
乔巴山	qiao	shan	Choibalsan, city in Mongolia, capital of the eastern aimag (province) of Dornod; Khorloogiin Choibalsan (1895-1952), Communist leader of the Mongolian People's Republic (mid-1930s-1952)
乔布斯	qiao	si	see 史蒂夫·喬布斯|史蒂夫·乔布斯[Shi3 di4 fu1 Qiao2 bu4 si1]
乔戈里峰	qiao	feng	K2, aka Mt. Chogir, the world's second highest peak, located in the Karakoram Range 喀喇崑崙山脈|喀喇昆仑山脉[Ka1 la3 kun1 lun2 Shan1 mai4]
乔格里峰	qiao	feng	see 喬戈里峰|乔戈里峰[Qiao2 ge1 li3 Feng1]
乔治一世	qiao	shi	George I of Great Brittain
乔治亚	qiao	ya	(Tw) Georgia, US state; (Tw) Georgia (country)
乔治城	qiao	cheng	Georgetown; (the spelling 喬治敦|乔治敦 is more common)
乔治城大学	qiao	xue	Georgetown University in Washington D.C., famous as quality Jesuit university and for its basketball team
乔治敦	qiao	dun	Georgetown
乔答摩	qiao	mo	Gautama, surname of the Siddhartha, the historical Buddha
乔纳森	qiao	sen	Jonathan (name)
乔装打扮	qiao	ban	to dress up in disguise (idiom); to pretend for the purpose of deceit
乔迁之喜	qiao	xi	congratulations on house-moving or promotion (idiom); Best wishes for your new home!
乖乖女	guai	nv	well-behaved girl; good girl
乖乖牌	guai	pai	good little boy (or girl)
乘人不备	cheng	bei	to take advantage of sb in an unguarded moment (idiom); to take sb by surprise
乘人之危	cheng	wei	to take advantage of sb's precarious position
乘务员	cheng	yuan	attendant on an airplane, train, boat etc
乘坚策肥	cheng	fei	to live in luxury; lit. to ride a solid carriage pulled by fat horses
乘法表	cheng	biao	multiplication table
乘法逆	cheng	ni	multiplicative inverse (math.)
乘火打劫	cheng	jie	to take advantage of sb's misfortune; to loot
乘用车	cheng	che	passenger vehicle
乘胜追击	cheng	ji	to follow up a victory and press home the attack; to pursue retreating enemy
乘虚而入	cheng	ru	to enter by exploiting a weak spot (idiom); to take advantage of a lapse
乘风破浪	cheng	lang	to brave the wind and the billows (idiom); to have high ambitions
乘龙快婿	cheng	xu	ideal son-in-law
乙二醇	yi	chun	glycol; ethylene glycol C2H4(OH)2 (antifreeze)
乙型肝炎	yi	yan	hepatitis B
乙型脑炎	yi	yan	Japanese encephalitis, aka epidemic encephalitis B
乙太网路	yi	lu	(Tw) Ethernet
乙女心	yi	xin	Sedum pachyphyllum (a succulent plant with red-tipped leaves); jelly bean plant
乙氧基	yi	ji	ethoxy (chemistry)
乙氨基	yi	ji	ethylamino group
乙烯基	yi	ji	(chemistry) vinyl group; ethenyl group
乙状结肠	yi	chang	sigmoid colon (anatomy); bent colon, linking the descending colon to the rectum
乙硫醇	yi	chun	ethanethiol (chemistry)
乙种射线	yi	xian	beta ray (electron stream from radioactive decay)
乙种粒子	yi	zi	beta particle (electron, esp. high speed electron emitted by radioactive nucleus)
乙酰胆碱	yi	jian	acetylcholine ACh (amine related to vitamin B complex)
乙酰胺吡咯烷酮	yi	tong	(pharmacology) piracetam (C6H10N2O2), a nootropic
乙酸基	yi	ji	acetyl radical CH3COO-
乙酸根	yi	gen	acetyl radical CH3COO-
乙酸盐	yi	yan	acetate CH3COO-
乙醇酸	yi	suan	glycolic acid C2H4O3
九一八事变	jiu	bian	the Mukden or Manchurian Railway Incident of 18th September 1931 used by the Japanese as a pretext to annex Manchuria; also known as Liutiaogou incident 柳條溝事變|柳条沟事变
九三学社	jiu	she	Jiusan Society, one of the eight political parties of the CCP
九九乘法表	jiu	biao	multiplication table
九九归一	jiu	yi	nine divide by nine is one (abacus rule); when all is said and done
九九重阳	jiu	yang	Double Ninth or Yang Festival; 9th day of 9th lunar month
九二共识	jiu	shi	1992 Consensus, statement issued after 1992 talks between PRC and Taiwan representatives, asserting that there is only one China
九分之一	jiu	yi	one ninth
九华山	jiu	shan	Mount Jiuhua in Anhui, scenic tourist site, and one of the four famous Buddhist mountains
九原区	jiu	qu	Jiuyuan, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
九台区	jiu	qu	Jiutai, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
九号球	jiu	qiu	nine-ball (billiards game)
九声六调	jiu	diao	nine tones and six modes (tonal system of Cantonese and other southern languages)
九天仙女	jiu	nv	(idiom) celestial maiden of the highest heavens; (fig.) woman of extraordinary beauty
九天揽月	jiu	yue	(idiom) to reach for the stars
九天玄女	jiu	nv	Xuan Nü, a fairy in Chinese mythology
九头鸟	jiu	niao	legendary bird with nine heads (old); cunning or sly person
九孔螺	jiu	luo	see 九孔[jiu3 kong3]
九官鸟	jiu	niao	(Tw) (bird species of China) common hill myna (Gracula religiosa)
九宫山	jiu	shan	Jiugong Mountains (the location of Jiugong Mountain National Park), in Tongshan County, Xianning 咸寧|咸宁[Xian2 ning2], Hubei
九宫格	jiu	ge	3-by-3 grid
九宫格数独	jiu	du	sudoku (puzzle game)
九寨沟	jiu	gou	Jiuzhaigou Valley, Sichuan; Jiuzhaigou county, Sichuan
九寨沟县	jiu	xian	Jiuzhaigou, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
九寨沟风景名胜区	jiu	qu	Jiuzhaigou Valley Scenic and Historical Interest Area, Sichuan
九尾狐	jiu	hu	nine-tailed fox (mythological creature)
九尾龟	jiu	gui	nine-tailed turtle of mythology; The Nine-tailed Turtle, novel by late Qing novelist Zhang Chunfan 張春帆|张春帆
九层塔	jiu	ta	basil
九嶷山	jiu	shan	Jiuyi Mountains in Hunan on the border with Guangdong
九月份	jiu	fen	September
九校联盟	jiu	meng	C9 League, alliance of nine prestigious Chinese universities, established in 1998
九死一生	jiu	sheng	nine deaths and still alive (idiom); a narrow escape; new lease of life
九江市	jiu	shi	Jiujiang, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
九牛一毛	jiu	mao	(lit.) one hair from nine oxen (idiom); (fig.) a drop in the ocean
九牛二虎之力	jiu	li	tremendous strength (idiom)
九章算术	jiu	shu	The Nine Chapters on the Mathematical Art
九边形	jiu	xing	nonagon
九连环	jiu	huan	Chinese rings, a brainteaser toy consisting of nine rings interlocked on a looped handle, the objective being to remove the rings from the handle
九重霄	jiu	xiao	ninth heaven; Highest Heaven
九零后	jiu	hou	90s generation
九霄云外	jiu	wai	beyond the topmost clouds (idiom); unimaginably far away
九面体	jiu	ti	enneahedron (solid figure having nine plane faces)
九香虫	jiu	chong	brown marmorated stinkbug (BMSB)
九齿钉耙	jiu	pa	The Nine-Toothed Rake (weapon of Zhu Bajie 豬八戒|猪八戒[Zhu1 Ba1 jie4])
九龙县	jiu	xian	Jiulong, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
九龙坡	jiu	po	see 九龍坡區|九龙坡区[Jiu3 long2 po1 Qu1]
九龙坡区	jiu	qu	Jiulongpo, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
九龙城	jiu	cheng	Kowloon City, Hong Kong
九龙城寨	jiu	zhai	Kowloon Walled City
乞力马扎罗山	qi	shan	Mt Kilimanjaro in Tanzania
乞哀告怜	qi	lian	begging for pity and asking for help (idiom)
也好不了多少	ye	shao	hardly any better; just as bad
也好不到哪里去	ye	qu	just as bad; not much better
也就是	ye	shi	in other words; i.e.
也就是说	ye	shuo	in other words; that is to say; so
也有今天	ye	tian	(coll.) to get one's just deserts; to serve sb right; to get one's share of (good or bad things)
习以为常	xi	chang	accustomed to; used to
习以成俗	xi	su	to become accustomed to sth through long practice
习以成性	xi	xing	deeply ingrained; steeped in
习俗移性	xi	xing	one's habits change with long custom
习大大	xi	da	Papa Xi, nickname for Xi Jinping 習近平|习近平[Xi2 Jin4 ping2]
习得性	xi	xing	acquired; learned
习得性无助	xi	zhu	(psychology) learned helplessness
习惯性	xi	xing	customary
习惯成自然	xi	ran	(saying) habit becomes second nature; to do something as if it were perfectly natural because one is accustomed to it
习惯法	xi	fa	customary law; common law
习惯用法	xi	fa	idiom
习惯用语	xi	yu	idiom; idiomatic expression; habitual form of speech (grammar)
习惯自然	xi	ran	see 習慣成自然|习惯成自然[xi2 guan4 cheng2 zi4 ran2]
习水县	xi	xian	Xishui, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
习近平	xi	ping	Xi Jinping (1953–), PRC politician, General Secretary of the CCP from 2012, president of the PRC from 2013
乡下习气	xiang	qi	country manners; provincialism
乡下人	xiang	ren	country folk; rustic; rural folk
乡下佬	xiang	lao	villager; hick
乡城县	xiang	xian	Xiangcheng, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
乡宁县	xiang	xian	Xiangning, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
乡巴佬	xiang	lao	(derog.) country bumpkin; hick
乡村医生	xiang	sheng	village doctor (Chinese health care system)
乡村奶酪	xiang	lao	cottage cheese
乡村音乐	xiang	yue	country music (country & western music genre)
书不尽言	shu	yan	I have much more to say than can be written in this letter (conventional letter ending) (idiom)
书信集	shu	ji	collected letters
书写不能症	shu	zheng	agraphia
书写符号	shu	hao	writing symbol
书写语言	shu	yan	written language
书卷奖	shu	jiang	presidential award (received by university students in Taiwan for academic excellence)
书卷气	shu	qi	scholarly flavor; educated appearance
书名号	shu	hao	Chinese guillemet 《》(punct. used for names of books etc)
书呆子	shu	zi	bookworm; pedant; bookish fool
书法家	shu	jia	calligrapher
书画家	shu	jia	calligrapher and painter
书画毡	shu	zhan	felt desk pad for calligraphy
书皮儿	shu	r	erhua variant of 書皮|书皮[shu1 pi2]
书记处	shu	chu	secretariat
书记官	shu	guan	clerk of a law court
书面许可	shu	ke	written permission; written authorization
书面语	shu	yu	written language
书馆儿	shu	r	teashop with performance by 評書|评书 story tellers
书香门第	shu	di	family with a literary reputation (idiom); literary family
买一送一	mai	yi	buy one, get one free; two for the price of one
买不起	mai	qi	cannot afford; can't afford buying
买东西	mai	xi	to do one's shopping
买了佛冷	mai	leng	(Internet slang) eggcorn for the song lyrics "I love Poland" that became a catchphrase in 2018
买关节	mai	jie	to offer a bribe
买官卖官	mai	guan	buying and selling of official positions
买方市场	mai	chang	buyer's market
买椟还珠	mai	zhu	to buy a wooden box and return the pearls inside; to show poor judgment (idiom)
买空卖空	mai	kong	to speculate; to play the market; (fig.) to sell hot air
买笑追欢	mai	huan	lit. to buy smiles to seek happiness; abandon oneself to the pleasures of the flesh (idiom)
买路财	mai	cai	see 買路錢|买路钱[mai3 lu4 qian2]
买路钱	mai	qian	money extorted by bandits in exchange for safe passage; illegal toll; (old) paper money strewn along the path of a funeral procession
买面子	mai	zi	to allow sb to save face; to defer to
乱七八糟	luan	zao	(idiom) chaotic; in disorder; muddled
乱世佳人	luan	ren	Gone with the Wind (film)
乱咕攘	luan	rang	to disturb (dialect)
乱哄哄	luan	hong	noisy and in disarray; in an uproar
乱弹琴	luan	qin	to talk nonsense; to behave like a fool
乱成一团	luan	tuan	in a great mess; chaotic
乱搞男女关系	luan	xi	to be promiscuous; to sleep around
乱石砸死	luan	si	to stone to death
乱糟糟	luan	zao	chaotic; topsy turvy; a complete mess
乱臣贼子	luan	zi	rebels and traitors (idiom); general term for scoundrel
乱花钱	luan	qian	to spend money recklessly; to squander
乱葬岗	luan	gang	unmarked burial mound; untended graveyard; mass grave
乱蓬蓬	luan	peng	disheveled; tangled
乳制品	ru	pin	dairy products
乳化剂	ru	ji	emulsifier
乳头瘤	ru	liu	papilloma
乳山市	ru	shi	Rushan, a county-level city in Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
乳房摄影	ru	ying	mammography
乳杆菌	ru	jun	lactobacillus
乳果糖	ru	tang	lactulose
乳源县	ru	xian	see 乳源瑤族自治縣|乳源瑶族自治县[Ru3 yuan2 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
乳源瑶族自治县	ru	xian	Ruyuan Yao Autonomous County, in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
乳白天空	ru	kong	whiteout
乳白色	ru	se	milky white
乳突窦	ru	dou	(anatomy) mastoid antrum
乳糖不耐症	ru	zheng	lactose intolerance
乳糜泻	ru	xie	celiac disease
乳胶漆	ru	qi	latex paint; emulsion paint
乳腺炎	ru	yan	mastitis
乳腺癌	ru	ai	breast cancer
乳臭未干	ru	gan	lit. smell of breast milk not yet dried (idiom); fig. immature and inexperienced; still wet behind the ears
乳酪蛋糕	ru	gao	cheesecake
乳酪饼	ru	bing	(Tw) a square sheet of pastry, typically pan-fried and served with savory fillings or sweet jam
乳酸杆菌	ru	jun	lactobacillus
乳酸菌	ru	jun	lactic acid bacteria
乳黄色	ru	se	cream (color)
乾嘉三大家	qian	jia	the three leading poets of the Qianlong-Jiaqing era (1735–1820), who championed personal expression and innovation in Qing poetry: Yuan Mei 袁枚[Yuan2 Mei2], Jiang Shiquan 蔣士銓|蒋士铨[Jiang3 Shi4 quan2] and Zhao Yi 趙翼|赵翼[Zhao4 Yi4]
乾安县	qian	xian	Qian'an, a county in Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
了不得	liao	de	terrific; terrible; (after 得[de5]) very
了不起	liao	qi	amazing; terrific; extraordinary
了却此生	liao	sheng	to live out one's life; to die
了去了	le	le	(coll.) (after adjectives such as 多[duo1], 大[da4], 遠|远[yuan3], 高[gao1]) very; extremely
了如指掌	liao	zhang	to know sth like the back of one's hand (idiom); to know (a person, a place etc) inside out
了无新意	liao	yi	unoriginal; stereotyped
了无生趣	liao	qu	to lose all interest in life (idiom)
了此残生	liao	sheng	to live out the rest of one's life
了然于胸	liao	xiong	(idiom) to be well aware; to understand clearly
了若指掌	liao	zhang	see 了如指掌[liao3 ru2 zhi3 zhang3]
予人口实	yu	shi	to give cause for gossip
争上游	zheng	you	to strive to be among the best; zheng shangyou (card game)
争先恐后	zheng	hou	(idiom) to compete to be first; to scramble to get ahead; to rush forward for fear of falling behind
争分夺秒	zheng	miao	lit. fight minutes, snatch seconds (idiom); a race against time; making every second count
争前恐后	zheng	hou	see 爭先恐後|争先恐后[zheng1 xian1 kong3 hou4]
争取时效	zheng	xiao	to strive to get sth done while the timing is right
争取时间	zheng	jian	to act with urgency; to buy time
争名夺利	zheng	li	to fight for fame, grab profit (idiom); scrambling for fame and wealth; only interested in personal gain
争夺战	zheng	zhan	struggle
争妍斗艳	zheng	yan	contending for supreme beauty (esp. of flowers, scenery, painting etc); vying in beauty and glamor
争强好胜	zheng	sheng	competitive; ambitious and aggressive; to desire to beat others
争执不下	zheng	xia	to quarrel endlessly
争斤论两	zheng	liang	to haggle over every ounce (idiom); to to fuss over minor points; to be particular about sth
争权夺利	zheng	li	scramble for power and profit (idiom); power struggle
争球线	zheng	xian	scrimmage line (American football)
争议性	zheng	xing	controversial
争论点	zheng	dian	contention
争锋吃醋	zheng	cu	variant of 爭風吃醋|争风吃醋[zheng1 feng1 chi1 cu4]
争长论短	zheng	duan	lit. to argue who is right and wrong (idiom); fig. to squabble; to argue over minor issues
争面子	zheng	zi	to do (sb) proud; to be a credit to (one's school etc); to make oneself look good; to build up one's image
争风吃醋	zheng	cu	to rival sb for the affection of a man or woman; to be jealous of a rival in a love affair
事不关己	shi	ji	a matter of no concern to oneself (idiom)
事不关己高高挂起	shi	qi	to feel unconcerned and let matters rest (idiom)
事不宜迟	shi	chi	the matter should not be delayed; there's no time to lose
事不过三	shi	san	(idiom) a thing should not be attempted more than three times; don't repeat the same mistake again and again; (idiom) bad things don't happen more than three times
事与愿违	shi	wei	things turn out contrary to the way one wishes (idiom)
事业单位	shi	wei	public service institution (e.g. schools, hospitals); (Tw) business enterprise; company; firm
事业心	shi	xin	devotion to one's work; professional ambition
事业有成	shi	cheng	to be successful in business; professional success
事业线	shi	xian	(palmistry) fate line; career prospects line (running vertically up the palm to the base of the middle finger); (slang) cleavage
事业编	shi	bian	staffing quota for public service institutions; (by extension) a quota-based position in such an institution (abbr. for 事業編制|事业编制[shi4 ye4 bian1 zhi4])
事件相关电位	shi	wei	(neuroscience) event-related potential
事倍功半	shi	ban	(idiom) to expend twice the effort for half the result
事儿妈	shi	ma	(coll.) fussbudget; pain in the ass
事先通知	shi	zhi	preliminary notification; to announce in advance
事关重大	shi	da	the implications are profound; the ramifications are huge; (of a decision etc) consequential
事到临头	shi	tou	when things come to a head (idiom)
事到今日	shi	ri	under the circumstances; the matter having come to that point
事到如今	shi	jin	as matters stand; things having reached this stage
事务律师	shi	shi	solicitor (law)
事务所	shi	suo	business office; firm
事务繁忙	shi	mang	to be swamped with pressing affairs; to be snowed under with work
事半功倍	shi	bei	(idiom) to achieve twice the result with half the effort
事危累卵	shi	luan	lit. the matter has become a pile of eggs (idiom); fig. at a critical juncture
事发地点	shi	dian	the scene of the incident
事后聪明	shi	ming	wise after the event (idiom); with hindsight, one should have predicted it
事后诸葛亮	shi	liang	person who is wise after the event
事在人为	shi	wei	the matter depends on the individual (idiom); it is a matter for your own effort; With effort, one can achieve anything.
事实上	shi	shang	in fact; in reality; actually
事实婚	shi	hun	common-law marriage; de facto marriage
事实婚姻	shi	yin	de facto marriage; common-law marriage
事实根据	shi	ju	factual basis
事实胜于雄辩	shi	bian	facts speak louder than words (idiom)
事已至此	shi	ci	see 事到如今[shi4 dao4 ru2 jin1]
事必躬亲	shi	qin	to attend to everything personally
事态发展	shi	zhan	course of events
事怕行家	shi	jia	an expert always produces the best work (idiom)
事故照射	shi	she	accidental exposure
事无大小	shi	xiao	see 事無巨細|事无巨细[shi4 wu2 ju4 xi4]
事无巨细	shi	xi	lit. things are not separated according to their size (idiom); fig. to deal with any matter, regardless of its importance
事过境迁	shi	qian	The issue is in the past, and the situation has changed (idiom).; It is water under the bridge.
二一添作五	er	wu	lit. one half equals zero point five (division rule in abacus reckoning); to share fairly between two parties; to go fifty-fifty
二丁醚	er	mi	dibutyl ether
二七区	er	qu	Erqi, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
二世祖	er	zu	profligate child of a wealthy family
二产妇	er	fu	lady who has given birth twice
二人世界	er	jie	world with only two people (usually refers to a romantic couple); romantic couple's world
二人台	er	tai	genre of song-and-dance duet popular in Inner Mongolia
二人转	er	zhuan	genre of song-and-dance duet popular in northeast China
二倍体	er	ti	diploid (in cell biology)
二元论	er	lun	dualism, belief that the universe is made of two different substance (e.g. mind and matter or good and evil)
二元醇	er	chun	(chemistry) diol; alcohol with two hydroxyl groups
二八佳人	er	ren	16-year-old beauty
二分之一	er	yi	one half
二分点	er	dian	the two equinoxes
二分裂	er	lie	binary division (in bacterial reproduction)
二分音符	er	fu	minim (music)
二刻拍案惊奇	er	qi	Slapping the Table in Amazement (Part II), second of two books of vernacular stories by Ming dynasty novelist Ling Mengchu 凌濛初|凌蒙初[Ling2 Meng2 chu1]
二十一世纪	er	ji	21st century
二十一条	er	tiao	the Japanese Twenty-One Demands of 1915
二十一点	er	dian	blackjack (card game)
二十世纪	er	ji	20th century
二十五史	er	shi	twenty four dynastic histories (or 25 or 26 in modern editions)
二十八宿	er	xiu	the twenty-eight constellations
二十四史	er	shi	the Twenty-Four Histories (25 or 26 in modern editions), collection of books on Chinese dynastic history from 3000 BC till 17th century; fig. a long and complicated story
二十四孝	er	xiao	the Twenty-four Filial Exemplars, classic Confucian text on filial piety from Yuan dynasty
二十四节气	er	qi	the 24 solar terms, calculated from the position of the sun on the ecliptic, that divide the year into 24 equal periods
二十多	er	duo	over 20
二十年目睹之怪现状	er	zhuang	The Strange State of the World Witnessed Over 20 Years, novel by late Qing novelist Wu Jianren 吳趼人|吴趼人[Wu2 Jian3 ren2]
二十面体	er	ti	icosahedron
二叉树	er	shu	binary tree
二叠纪	er	ji	Permian (geological period 292-250m years ago)
二号人物	er	wu	second-in-command
二号电池	er	chi	(Tw) C size battery (PRC equivalent: 三號電池|三号电池[san1 hao4 dian4 chi2])
二合一	er	yi	2-in-1; two-in-one
二名法	er	fa	binomial nomenclature (in taxonomy)
二地主	er	zhu	sublandlord; tenant who sublets
二头肌	er	ji	biceps muscle
二婚头	er	tou	remarried lady (contemptuous term); lady who marries for a second time
二尕子	er	zi	scoundrel
二尖瓣	er	ban	mitral valve (physiology)
二尖瓣狭窄	er	zhai	mitral stenosis (physiology)
二师兄	er	xiong	(humorous) pig (alluding to Zhu Bajie 豬八戒|猪八戒[Zhu1 Ba1 jie4])
二年生	er	sheng	(botany) (of a plant) biennial
二恶英	er	ying	dioxin
二愣子	er	zi	stupid person; dolt; rash (slang)
二房东	er	dong	sublandlord; tenant who sublets
二手房	er	fang	second-hand house; house acquired indirectly through a middle-man
二手烟	er	yan	second-hand smoke
二手货	er	huo	second-hand goods; used goods
二手车	er	che	second-hand car
二把刀	er	dao	inexpert; a botcher
二把手	er	shou	deputy leader; the second-in-command
二拇指	er	zhi	index finger
二斑百灵	er	ling	(bird species of China) bimaculated lark (Melanocorypha bimaculata)
二月份	er	fen	February
二杆子	er	zi	hot-tempered; rash; hot-tempered person
二极管	er	guan	diode
二次世界大战	er	zhan	World War Two
二次元	er	yuan	two-dimensional; the fictional worlds of anime, comics and games
二次函数	er	shu	quadratic function
二次型	er	xing	quadratic form (math.)
二次多项式	er	shi	(math.) quadratic polynomial
二次大战	er	zhan	World War Two
二次方	er	fang	square (i.e. x times x)
二次方程	er	cheng	(math.) quadratic equation
二次曲	er	qu	quadratic curve; conic section (geometry)
二次曲线	er	xian	quadratic curve (geometry); conic
二次曲面	er	mian	quadric surface (geometry)
二次革命	er	ming	Second Revolution, campaign from 1913 of the provisional revolutionary government (under Sun Yat-sen and the Guomindang) against Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] and the Northern Warlords
二正丙醚	er	mi	di-n-propyl ether
二毛子	er	zi	lit. secondary foreigner; (derogatory term for Chinese Christians and others associated with foreigners, used at the time of the Boxer Rebellion); (coll.) westernized Chinese person
二氧化氮	er	dan	nitrogen dioxide
二氧化物	er	wu	dioxide
二氧化硅	er	gui	silicon dioxide (SiO2)
二氧化硫	er	liu	sulfur dioxide SO2
二氧化碳	er	tan	carbon dioxide CO2
二氧化碳隔离	er	li	carbon sequestration; carbon dioxide sequestration
二氧化钛	er	tai	titanium dioxide
二氧化铀	er	you	uranium dioxide
二氧化锰	er	meng	manganese(iv) oxide
二氧杂芑	er	qi	dioxin
二氧芑	er	qi	dioxin
二氯异三聚氰酸钠	er	na	sodium dichloroisocyanurate
二氯甲烷	er	wan	dichloromethane
二氯胺	er	an	(chemistry) dichloramine
二氯苯胺苯乙酸钠	er	na	diclofenac sodium (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller); also called voltaren 扶他林
二水货	er	huo	used goods; second hand goods
二流子	er	zi	loafer; idler; bum
二甘醇	er	chun	diethylene glycol
二甲基砷酸	er	suan	dimethylarsenic acid (CH3)2AsO2H; cacodylic acid
二甲基胂酸	er	suan	dimethylarsenic acid (CH3)2AsO2H; cacodylic acid
二甲苯	er	ben	xylene
二百五	er	wu	idiot; stupid person; a dope
二百方针	er	zhen	see 雙百方針|双百方针[shuang1 bai3 fang1 zhen1]
二硫化碳	er	tan	carbon disulfide
二硫基丙磺酸钠	er	na	sodium dimercaptosulfanate
二硫基丙醇	er	chun	dimercaprol
二硫基琥珀酸钠	er	na	sodium dimercaptosuccinate
二硫键	er	jian	disulfide (chemistry)
二磷酸腺苷	er	gan	adenosine diphosphate (ADP)
二等公民	er	min	second-class citizen
二等舱	er	cang	second class cabin
二等车	er	che	second-class carriage (of a train)
二级士官	er	guan	sergeant
二级头	er	tou	second stage (diving)
二级头呼吸器	er	qi	(scuba diving) regulator; demand valve
二维码	er	ma	2D barcode; matrix code; (esp.) QR code
二联式发票	er	piao	(Tw) duplicate uniform invoice, a type of receipt 統一發票|统一发票[tong3 yi1 fa1 piao4] issued to a person or organization without a VAT identification number
二聚体	er	ti	dimer (chemistry)
二节棍	er	gun	nunchaku (weapon with two rods joined by a short chain, used in martial arts)
二苯氯胂	er	shen	diphenylchloroarsine
二茬罪	er	zui	to suffer second persecution
二虎相斗必有一伤	er	shang	see 兩虎相爭，必有一傷|两虎相争，必有一伤[liang3 hu3 xiang1 zheng1 , bi4 you3 yi1 shang1]
二话不说	er	shuo	(idiom) not saying anything further; not raising any objection; without demur
二话没说	er	shuo	see 二話不說|二话不说[er4 hua4 bu4 shuo1]
二踢脚	er	jiao	double-bang firecracker (which explodes once on the ground and then a second time in the air after being propelled upward)
二轮片	er	pian	second-run movie
二过一	er	yi	(soccer) one-two; push-and-run
二进制	er	zhi	binary system (math.)
二进制编码	er	ma	binary code; binary encoding
二进宫	er	gong	name of a famous opera; (slang) to go to jail for a second offense
二连巨盗龙	er	long	Gigantoraptor erlianensis (a giant bird-like dinosaur found in Erlian in Inner Mongolia)
二连浩特	er	te	see 二連浩特市|二连浩特市[Er4 lian2 hao4 te4 Shi4]
二连浩特市	er	shi	Erenhot, a county-level city in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
二连盆地	er	di	Erlian Basin in Inner Mongolia
二迭纪	er	ji	variant of 二疊紀|二叠纪[Er4 die2 ji4]
二遍苦	er	ku	second persecution
二道区	er	qu	Erdao, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
二道江	er	jiang	see 二道江區|二道江区[Er4 dao4 jiang1 Qu1]
二道江区	er	qu	Erdaojiang, a district of Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
二道贩子	er	zi	middleman; buyer and seller
二郎神	er	shen	Erlangshen, Chinese deity
二郎腿	er	tui	one leg over the other (legs crossed)
二部制	er	zhi	two shift system (in schools)
二里头	er	tou	Erlitou (Xia dynasty 夏朝[Xia4 chao2] archaeological site at Yanshi 偃師|偃师[Yan3 shi1] in Luoyang 洛陽|洛阳[Luo4 yang2], Henan)
二重下标	er	biao	double subscript; doubly indexed
二重唱	er	chang	duet
二重奏	er	zou	duet (in music)
二重性	er	xing	dualism; two sided; double nature
二重根	er	gen	a double root of an equation
二重母音	er	yin	diphthong
二锅头	er	tou	erguotou (sorghum liquor)
二项式	er	shi	two items; binomial (math.)
二项式定理	er	li	the binomial theorem (math.)
二项式系数	er	shu	(math.) binomial coefficient
二鬼子	er	zi	traitor; collaborator with the enemy
于事无补	yu	bu	unhelpful; useless
于归之喜	yu	xi	the joy of matrimony (polite phrase referring to a young woman)
于心不忍	yu	ren	can't bear to
于是乎	yu	hu	(literary) and so; thereupon; thus
于洪区	yu	qu	Yuhong, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
于田县	yu	xian	Yutian, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
于都县	yu	xian	Yudu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
亏心事	kui	shi	shameful deed
亏本出售	kui	shou	to sell at a loss
云冈区	yun	qu	Yungang, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
云冈石窟	yun	ku	Yungang Caves at Datong 大同, Shanxi 山西
云南柳莺	yun	ying	(bird species of China) Chinese leaf warbler (Phylloscopus yunnanensis)
云南白斑尾柳莺	yun	ying	(bird species of China) Davison's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus intensior)
云南省	yun	sheng	Yunnan Province, capital Kunming 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4] (short name 雲|云[Yun2] or 滇[Dian1])
云和县	yun	xian	Yunhe, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
云城区	yun	qu	Yuncheng, a district of Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
云存储	yun	chu	(computing) cloud storage
云安区	yun	qu	Yun'an, a district of Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
云山雾罩	yun	zhao	(lit.) enveloped in clouds and mist (idiom); (fig.) (of speech or writing) unclear; confusing
云岩区	yun	qu	Yunyan, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
云州区	yun	qu	Yunzhou, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
云散风流	yun	liu	lit. clouds scatter, wind flows (idiom); the crisis settles down; people disperse home; things return to normal
云林县	yun	xian	Yunlin county in Taiwan
云梦县	yun	xian	Yunmeng, a county in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
云泥之别	yun	bie	(idiom) a world of difference
云泥之差	yun	cha	see 雲泥之別|云泥之别[yun2 ni2 zhi1 bie2]
云浮市	yun	shi	Yunfu, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
云消雾散	yun	san	the clouds melt and the mists disperse (idiom); to clear up; to vanish into thin air
云溪区	yun	qu	Yunxi, a district of Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
云片糕	yun	gao	a kind of cake
云石斑鸭	yun	ya	(bird species of China) marbled teal; marbled duck (Marmaronetta angustirostris)
云窗雾槛	yun	kan	cloud around the window, mist on the threshold (idiom); tall building with the windows in the clouds
云计算	yun	suan	cloud computing
云谲波诡	yun	gui	see 波譎雲詭|波谲云诡[bo1 jue2 yun2 gui3]
云贵川	yun	chuan	Yunnan, Guizhou and Sichuan
云贵高原	yun	yuan	Yunnan and Guizhou plateau in southwest China, covering east Yunnan, whole of Guizhou, west of Guangxi and southern margins of Sichuan, Hubei and Hunan
云里雾里	yun	li	amidst the clouds and mist; (fig.) mystified; puzzled
云阳县	yun	xian	Yunyang, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
云隙光	yun	guang	crepuscular rays; sunbeams
云雾径迹	yun	ji	cloud track (trace of ionizing particle in cloud chamber)
云霄县	yun	xian	Yunxiao, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
云霄飞车	yun	che	roller coaster
云龙区	yun	qu	Yunlong, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
云龙县	yun	xian	Yunlong, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
互不侵犯	hu	fan	non-aggression
互不相欠	hu	qian	see 兩不相欠|两不相欠[liang3 bu4 xiang1 qian4]
互不相让	hu	rang	neither giving way to the other
互为因果	hu	guo	mutually related karma (idiom); fates are intertwined; interdependent
互动电视	hu	shi	interactive TV
互助县	hu	xian	see 互助土族自治縣|互助土族自治县[Hu4 zhu4 Tu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
互助土族自治县	hu	xian	Huzhu Tu Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
互惠生	hu	sheng	au pair
互操性	hu	xing	interoperability
互生叶	hu	ye	alternate phyllotaxy (leaf pattern)
互相依存	hu	cun	interdependent
互相扯皮	hu	pi	to pass the buck; to shirk responsibility
互相推诿	hu	wei	mutually shirking responsibilities (idiom); each blaming the other; passing the buck to and fro; each trying to unload responsibilities onto the other
互相监督	hu	du	mutual supervision
互相联系	hu	xi	mutually related; interconnected
互相连接	hu	jie	interlinked
互联网	hu	wang	Internet
互联网站	hu	zhan	Internet site
互联网络	hu	luo	network
互诉衷肠	hu	chang	(idiom) to confide in each other
互通性	hu	xing	interoperability (of communications equipment)
互通有无	hu	wu	(idiom) mutual exchange of assistance; to benefit from each other's strengths and make up each other's shortfalls; to reciprocate with material assistance; to scratch each other's back
五七干校	wu	xiao	May 7 cadre school (farm where urban cadres had to undertake manual labor and study ideology during the Cultural Revolution) (abbr. for 五七幹部學校|五七干部学校[Wu3 Qi1 Gan4 bu4 Xue2 xiao4])
五七干部学校	wu	xiao	May 7 cadre school (farm where urban cadres had to undertake manual labor and study ideology during the Cultural Revolution)
五五开	wu	kai	(coll.) fifty-fifty (equally divided or equally likely)
五人墓碑记	wu	ji	Five Men's Tombstone Inscription, an essay by Zhang Pu 張溥|张溥[Zhang1 Pu3] commemorating five martyrs who died resisting the tyranny of Wei Zhongxian 魏忠賢|魏忠贤[Wei4 Zhong1 xian2] during the late Ming dynasty
五代十国	wu	guo	Five Dynasties (907-960) and Ten Kingdoms (902-979), period of political turmoil in ancient China
五代史	wu	shi	History of the Five Dynasties, eighteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Xue Juzheng 薛居正[Xue1 Ju1 zheng4] in 974 during Northern Song 北宋[Bei3 Song4], 150 scrolls
五体投地	wu	di	to prostrate oneself in admiration (idiom); to adulate sb
五倍子树	wu	shu	Chinese sumac (Rhus chinensis)
五光十色	wu	se	(idiom) bright and multicolored; of rich variety; dazzling; glitzy
五分之一	wu	yi	one fifth
五分熟	wu	shu	medium (of steak)
五分美金	wu	jin	nickel; five US cents
五劳七伤	wu	shang	(TCM) "five strains and seven impairments", five referring to the five viscera 五臟|五脏[wu3 zang4], and seven to adverse effects on one's body as a result of: overeating (spleen), anger (liver), moisture (kidney), cold (lung), worry (heart), wind and rain (outer appearance) and fear (mind)
五十步笑百步	wu	bu	(lit.) the one who has retreated 50 steps laughs at the one who has retreated 100 steps (idiom); (fig.) the pot calls the kettle black
五十肩	wu	jian	adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder)
五十铃	wu	ling	Isuzu
五卅运动	wu	dong	anti-imperialist movement of 30th May 1925, involving general strike esp. in Shanghai, Guangzhou, Hong Kong etc
五华区	wu	qu	Wuhua, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
五华县	wu	xian	Wuhua, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
五原县	wu	xian	Wuyuan, a county in Bayannur City 巴彥淖爾市|巴彦淖尔市[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
五口通商	wu	shang	the five treaty ports forced on Qing China by the 1842 treaty of Nanjing 南京條約|南京条约 that concluded the First Opium War, namely: Guangzhou 廣州|广州, Fuzhou 福州, Ningbo 寧波|宁波, Xiamen or Amoy 廈門|厦门 and Shanghai 上海
五台县	wu	xian	Wutai, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
五台山	wu	shan	Mt Wutai in Shanxi 山西[Shan1 xi1], one of the Four Sacred Mountains and home of the Bodhimanda of Manjushri 文殊[Wen2 shu1]
五台市	wu	shi	Wutai city in Shanxi
五叶松	wu	song	Taiwan white pine (Pinus morrisonicola)
五号电池	wu	chi	AA battery (PRC); Taiwan equivalent: 三號電池|三号电池[san1 hao4 dian4 chi2]
五味俱全	wu	quan	a complete gamut of all five flavors (idiom); every flavor under the sun
五味子	wu	zi	schizandra (Schisandra chinensis); Magnolia vine
五味杂陈	wu	chen	with complex feelings (idiom)
五四爱国运动	wu	dong	May Fourth Movement; Chinese national renewal movement that started with 4th May 1919 protest against the Treaty of Versailles
五四运动	wu	dong	May Fourth Movement; Chinese national renewal movement that started with 4th May 1919 protest against the Treaty of Versailles
五声音阶	wu	jie	pentatonic scale
五大三粗	wu	cu	burly; strapping; big and strong
五大名山	wu	shan	Five Sacred Mountains of the Daoists, namely: Mt Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1] in Shandong, Mt Hua 華山|华山[Hua4 Shan1] in Shaanxi, Mt Heng 衡山[Heng2 Shan1] in Hunan, Mt Heng 恆山|恒山[Heng2 Shan1] in Shanxi, Mt Song 嵩山[Song1 Shan1] in Henan
五大洲	wu	zhou	five continents; the whole world
五大湖	wu	hu	the Great Lakes (of North America)
五大连池	wu	chi	see 五大連池市|五大连池市[Wu3 da4 lian2 chi2 Shi4]
五大连池市	wu	shi	Wudalianchi, a county-level city in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
五子棋	wu	qi	five-in-a-row (game similar to tic-tac-toe); Japanese: gomoku; gobang
五官端正	wu	zheng	to have regular features
五家渠	wu	qu	Wujyachü shehiri (Wujiaqu city) or Wǔjiāqú subprefecture level city in Ili Kazakh autonomous prefecture in north Xinjiang
五家渠市	wu	shi	Wujyachü shehiri (Wujiaqu city) or Wǔjiāqú subprefecture level city in Ili Kazakh autonomous prefecture in north Xinjiang
五寨县	wu	xian	Wuzhai, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
五峰县	wu	xian	see 五峰土家族自治縣|五峰土家族自治县[Wu3 feng1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
五峰土家族自治县	wu	xian	Wufeng Tujia Autonomous County, in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
五常市	wu	shi	Wuchang, a county-level city in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
五彩纸屑	wu	xie	confetti
五彩缤纷	wu	fen	all the colors in profusion (idiom); a garish display
五打一	wu	yi	to masturbate (slang)
五指山	wu	shan	Wuzhi Mountain (1,840 m), highest mountain in Hainan; Wuzhishan City, Hainan
五指山市	wu	shi	Wuzhishan City, Hainan
五斗柜	wu	gui	chest of drawers
五斗米道	wu	dao	Way of the Five Pecks of Rice (Taoist movement); Way of the Celestial Master
五旬节	wu	jie	Pentecost
五星红旗	wu	qi	five-starred red flag (PRC national flag)
五星级	wu	ji	five-star (hotel)
五月份	wu	fen	May
五月节	wu	jie	Dragon Boat Festival (the 5th day of the 5th lunar month)
五权宪法	wu	fa	Sun Yat-sen's Five-power constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan; The five courts or 院[yuan4] are 行政院[xing2 zheng4 yuan4] Executive yuan, 立法院[li4 fa3 yuan4] Legislative yuan, 司法院[si1 fa3 yuan4] Judicial yuan, 考試院|考试院[kao3 shi4 yuan4] Examination yuan, 監察院|监察院[jian1 cha2 yuan4] Control yuan
五棱镜	wu	jing	pentaprism
五步蛇	wu	she	Deinagkistrodon acutus, a species of venomous pit viper (lit. "five-pace snake" – supposedly, a person bitten by it can only walk five steps before succumbing to the venom)
五毛党	wu	dang	fifty cents party (person supposed to relay government propaganda on Internet sites)
五毛特效	wu	xiao	laughable low-budget special effects
五氧化二钒	wu	fan	Vanadium pentoxide V2O5; vanadic anhydride
五河县	wu	xian	Wuhe, a county in Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
五湖四海	wu	hai	all parts of the country
五灯会元	wu	yuan	Song Dynasty History of Zen Buddhism in China (1252), 20 scrolls
五环会徽	wu	hui	Olympic rings
五痨七伤	wu	shang	variant of 五勞七傷|五劳七伤[wu3 lao2 qi1 shang1]
五瘟神	wu	shen	five chief demons of folklore personifying pestilence; cf four horsemen of the apocalypse
五百年前是一家	wu	jia	five hundred years ago we were the same family (saying) (said of persons with the same surname)
五短身材	wu	cai	(of a person) short in stature
五碳糖	wu	tang	pentose (CH2O)5, monosaccharide with five carbon atoms, such as ribose 核糖[he2 tang2]
五祖拳	wu	quan	Wuzuquan - "Five Ancestors" - Martial Art
五福临门	wu	men	lit. (may the) five blessings descend upon this home (namely: longevity, wealth, health, virtue, and a natural death); (an auspicious saying for the Lunar New Year)
五笔字型	wu	xing	five stroke input method for Chinese characters by numbered strokes, invented by Wang Yongmin 王永民 in 1983
五笔字形	wu	xing	Chinese character input method for entering characters by numbered strokes (variant of 五筆字型|五笔字型[wu3 bi3 zi4 xing2])
五笔编码	wu	ma	five-stroke code, Chinese character input method
五笔输入法	wu	fa	five stroke input method for Chinese characters by numbered strokes, invented by Wang Yongmin 王永民 in 1983
五等爵位	wu	wei	five orders of feudal nobility, namely: Duke 公[gong1], Marquis 侯[hou2], Count 伯[bo2], Viscount 子[zi3], Baron 男[nan2]
五粮液	wu	ye	Wuliangye liquor; Five Grain liquor
五级士官	wu	guan	master sergeant
五线谱	wu	pu	(music) staff; stave
五胡十六国	wu	guo	Sixteen Kingdoms of Five non-Han people (ruling most of China 304-439)
五脏六腑	wu	fu	five viscera and six bowels (TCM)
五色缤纷	wu	fen	all the colors in profusion (idiom); a garish display
五色鸟	wu	niao	see 臺灣擬啄木鳥|台湾拟啄木鸟[Tai2 wan1 ni3 zhuo2 mu4 niao3]
五芒星	wu	xing	five-pointed star; pentagram
五花八门	wu	men	myriad; all kinds of; all sorts of
五花大绑	wu	bang	to bind a person's upper body, with arms tied behind the back and rope looped around the neck; to truss up
五花肉	wu	rou	pork belly; streaky pork
五苓散	wu	san	wuling powder (decoction of poria mushroom used in TCM); poria five powder; Hoelen five powder
五莲县	wu	xian	Wulian, a county in Rizhao City 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
五虎将	wu	jiang	Liu Bei's five great generals in Romance of the Three Kingdoms, namely: Guan Yu 關羽|关羽, Zhang Fei 張飛|张飞, Zhao Yun 趙雲|赵云, Ma Chao 馬超|马超, Huang Zhong 黃忠|黄忠
五行八作	wu	zuo	all the trades; people of all trades and professions
五角场	wu	chang	Wujiaochang neighborhood of Shanghai, adjacent to Fudan University
五角大厦	wu	sha	(Tw) the Pentagon
五角大楼	wu	lou	the Pentagon
五角形	wu	xing	pentagon
五角星	wu	xing	five-pointed star; pentagram
五言绝句	wu	ju	poetic form consisting of four lines of five syllables, with rhymes on first, second and fourth line
五讲四美三热爱	wu	ai	the five emphases, four beauties and three loves (PRC policy introduced in 1981, including emphasis on manners, beauty of language and love of socialism)
五谷丰登	wu	deng	abundant harvest of all food crops; bumper grain harvest
五辛素	wu	su	(adjective) non-Buddhist vegetarian (allowing strong-smelling vegetables like garlic and onions)
五边形	wu	xing	pentagon
五通桥	wu	qiao	see 五通橋區|五通桥区[Wu3 tong1 qiao2 Qu1]
五通桥区	wu	qu	Wutongqiao, a district of Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
五道口	wu	kou	Wudaokou neighborhood of Beijing
五金店	wu	dian	hardware store; ironmonger's store
五金店铺	wu	pu	hardware store
五针松	wu	song	Japanese white pine (Pinus parviflora)
五险一金	wu	jin	employment benefits package mandated by labor laws in China, consisting of five insurances (pension, medical, unemployment, work injury, and maternity) and a housing fund
五音不全	wu	quan	tone deaf; unable to sing in tune
五音度	wu	du	fifth (musical interval)
五项全能	wu	neng	pentathlon
五颜六色	wu	se	multicolored; every color under the sun
五香粉	wu	fen	five-spice powder
五马分尸	wu	shi	(idiom) to tear off sb's four limbs and head using five horse-drawn carts (historical form of capital punishment); (fig.) to tear apart; to utterly destroy; to brutally dismember
五鬼闹判	wu	pan	Five ghosts mock the judge, or Five ghosts resist judgment (title of folk opera, idiom); important personage mobbed by a crowd of ne'er-do-wells
井井有条	jing	tiao	everything clear and orderly (idiom); neat and tidy
井冈山	jing	shan	Jinggang Mountains, in the Jiangxi-Hunan border region
井冈山市	jing	shi	Jinggangshan, a county-level city in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
井字棋	jing	qi	tic-tac-toe
井底之蛙	jing	wa	(lit.) a frog at the bottom of a well (idiom); (fig.) a person of limited outlook and experience
井水不犯河水	jing	shui	(saying) everyone minds their own business
井然有序	jing	xu	everything clear and in good order (idiom); neat and tidy
井田制	jing	zhi	well-field system
井研县	jing	xian	Jingyan, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
井蛙之见	jing	jian	the view of a frog in a well (idiom); fig. a narrow view
井陉县	jing	xian	Jingxing, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
井陉矿区	jing	qu	Jingxing Mining District, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
亘古不变	gen	bian	unchanging since times immemorial (idiom); unalterable; unvarying
亘古未有	gen	you	unprecedented; never seen since ancient times
亘古通今	gen	jin	from ancient times up to now; throughout history
亚丁湾	ya	wan	Gulf of Aden
亚东县	ya	xian	Yadong, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
亚临界	ya	jie	subcritical
亚伯拉罕	ya	han	(name) Abraham; Abraham, Biblical patriarch regarded as the founder of monotheism
亚伯氏症	ya	zheng	Apert syndrome
亚健康	ya	kang	suboptimal health status
亚克力	ya	li	(loanword) acrylic
亚冬会	ya	hui	Asian Winter Games
亚利安娜	ya	na	Ariane (French space rocket)
亚利桑纳州	ya	zhou	state of Arizona
亚利桑那	ya	na	Arizona
亚利桑那州	ya	zhou	Arizona
亚努科维奇	ya	qi	Viktor Feyedov Yanukovych (1950-) Ukrainian politician
亚单位	ya	wei	subunit
亚历山大	ya	da	Alexander (name); Alexandria (town name)
亚历山大大帝	ya	di	Alexander the Great (356-323 BC)
亚历山大里亚	ya	ya	Alexandria
亚历山大鹦鹉	ya	wu	(bird species of China) Alexandrine parakeet (Psittacula eupatria)
亚原子	ya	zi	subatomic
亚哈斯	ya	si	Ahaz (son of Jotham)
亚喀巴	ya	ba	Aqaba (port city in Jordan)
亚塞拜然	ya	ran	(Tw) Azerbaijan
亚太区	ya	qu	Asian area; the Far East; Asia Pacific region
亚太地区	ya	qu	Asia-Pacific region
亚太经合会	ya	hui	APEC (Asia Pacific economic cooperation)
亚太经合组织	ya	zhi	APEC (organization)
亚太经济合作组织	ya	zhi	Asian-Pacific Economic Cooperation organization; APEC
亚巴郎	ya	lang	(Catholicism) Abraham
亚平宁	ya	ning	Apennine (Mountains)
亚弗烈	ya	lie	Alfred (name)
亚当斯	ya	si	Adams
亚当斯敦	ya	dun	Adamstown, capital of the Pitcairn Islands
亚得里亚海	ya	hai	Adriatic Sea
亚急性	ya	xing	subacute
亚投行	ya	hang	Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank, abbr. for 亞洲基礎設施投資銀行|亚洲基础设施投资银行[Ya4 zhou1 Ji1 chu3 She4 shi1 Tou2 zi1 Yin2 hang2]
亚拉伯	ya	bo	(old) Arabia
亚拉巴马	ya	ma	Alabama, US state
亚文化	ya	hua	subculture
亚斯伯格	ya	ge	see 阿斯佩爾格爾|阿斯佩尔格尔[A1 si1 pei4 er3 ge2 er3]
亚松森	ya	sen	Asunción, capital of Paraguay
亚欧大陆	ya	lu	Eurasian continent
亚欧大陆桥	ya	qiao	Eurasian land bridge (rail line linking China and Europe)
亚欧大陆腹地	ya	di	Eurasian hinterland (i.e. Central Asia including Xinjiang)
亚比利尼	ya	ni	Abilene
亚比玉	ya	yu	Abiud (son of Zerubbabel)
亚氏保加	ya	jia	see 阿斯佩爾格爾|阿斯佩尔格尔[A1 si1 pei4 er3 ge2 er3]
亚洲周刊	ya	kan	Asiaweek (Asian current affairs magazine, 1975–2001)
亚洲开发银行	ya	hang	Asian Development Bank
亚洲杯	ya	bei	Asian Cup
亚洲梨	ya	li	Asian pear; sand pear (Pyrus pyrifolia)
亚洲漠地林莺	ya	ying	(bird species of China) Asian desert warbler (Curruca nana)
亚洲短趾百灵	ya	ling	(bird species of China) Asian short-toed lark (Alaudala cheleensis)
亚洲足球联合会	ya	hui	Asian Football Confederation (AFC), the governing body of football (soccer) in Asia
亚热带	ya	dai	subtropical (zone or climate)
亚特兰大	ya	da	Atlanta
亚瑟士	ya	shi	ASICS (Japanese footwear brand)
亚瑟王	ya	wang	King Arthur
亚的斯亚贝巴	ya	ba	Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia
亚砷酸	ya	suan	arsenous acid
亚硝胺	ya	an	nitrosamine
亚硝酸	ya	suan	nitrous acid
亚硝酸异戊酯	ya	zhi	amyl nitrite
亚硝酸盐	ya	yan	nitrite
亚硝酸钠	ya	na	sodium nitrite
亚硫酸	ya	suan	sulfurous acid H2SO3
亚穆苏克罗	ya	luo	Yamoussoukro (city in the Ivory Coast)
亚答子	ya	zi	attap seed; attap chee
亚米拿达	ya	da	Amminadab (son of Ram)
亚细亚	ya	ya	Asia
亚细亚洲	ya	zhou	Asia
亚细安	ya	an	(Singapore, Malaysia) ASEAN
亚罗号	ya	hao	the Arrow (a Hong Kong registered ship involved in historical incident in 1856 used as pretext for the second Opium War)
亚罗号事件	ya	jian	the Arrow Incident of 1856 (used as pretext for the second Opium War)
亚罗士打	ya	da	Alor Star city, capital of Kedah state in northwest Malaysia
亚美人种	ya	zhong	see 黃種|黄种[huang2 zhong3]
亚美利加	ya	jia	America
亚美利加洲	ya	zhou	America; abbr. to 美洲[Mei3 zhou1]
亚美尼亚	ya	ya	Armenia
亚该亚	ya	ya	Achaia
亚足联	ya	lian	Asian Football Confederation (abbr. for 亞洲足球聯合會|亚洲足球联合会[Ya4 zhou1 Zu2 qiu2 Lian2 he2 hui4])
亚达薛西	ya	xi	Artaxerxes
亚运会	ya	hui	Asian Games
亚运村	ya	cun	Yayuncun neighborhood of Beijing
亚速尔群岛	ya	dao	Azores Islands
亚速海	ya	hai	Sea of Azov in southern Russia
亚里士多德	ya	de	Aristotle (384-322 BC), Greek philosopher
亚里斯多德	ya	de	Aristotle (philosopher)
亚非拉	ya	la	Asia, Africa and Latin America
亚马孙	ya	sun	Amazon
亚马孙河	ya	he	Amazon River
亚马逊	ya	xun	Amazon
亚马逊河	ya	he	Amazon River
亚麻仁	ya	ren	flaxseed; linseed
亚麻子	ya	zi	variant of 亞麻籽|亚麻籽[ya4 ma2 zi3]
亚麻布	ya	bu	linen
亚麻籽	ya	zi	flaxseed; linseed
亚麻酸	ya	suan	linolenic acid
亚齐省	ya	sheng	Aceh province of Indonesia in northwest Sumatra
亚龙湾	ya	wan	Yalong Bay in Sanya 三亞|三亚[San1 ya4], Hainan
亡兵纪念日	wang	ri	Memorial Day (American holiday)
亡命之徒	wang	tu	runaway (idiom); desperate criminal; fugitive
亡国奴	wang	nu	slave of a foreign conqueror
亡国灭种	wang	zhong	country destroyed, its people annihilated (idiom); total destruction
亡国虏	wang	lu	subjugated people; refugee from a destroyed country
亡羊补牢	wang	lao	lit. to mend the pen after sheep are lost (idiom); fig. to act belatedly; better late than never
亡魂失魄	wang	po	see 喪魂失魄|丧魂失魄[sang4 hun2 shi1 po4]
交保释放	jiao	fang	to release sb on bail
交叉口	jiao	kou	(road) intersection
交叉学科	jiao	ke	interdisciplinary; interdisciplinary subject (in science)
交叉引用	jiao	yong	cross-reference (in a document, index etc)
交叉感染	jiao	ran	cross-infection
交叉火力	jiao	li	crossfire
交叉点	jiao	dian	junction; crossroads; (geometry) point of intersection
交叉熵	jiao	shang	cross entropy (information theory)
交叉编译器	jiao	qi	(computing) cross-compiler
交叉耐药性	jiao	xing	cross-tolerance
交叉运球	jiao	qiu	crossover dribble (basketball)
交叉阴影线	jiao	xian	hatched lines; cross-hatched graphic pattern
交变电流	jiao	liu	alternating current (electricity)
交口县	jiao	xian	Jiaokou, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
交口称誉	jiao	yu	voices unanimous in praise (idiom); with an extensive public reputation
交响乐	jiao	yue	symphony
交响乐团	jiao	tuan	symphony orchestra
交响乐队	jiao	dui	symphony orchestra
交响曲	jiao	qu	symphony
交响金属	jiao	shu	symphonic metal (pop music); heavy metal with symphonic pretensions
交城县	jiao	xian	Jiaocheng, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
交头接耳	jiao	er	to whisper to one another's ear
交强险	jiao	xian	compulsory vehicle insurance (abbr. for 機動車交通事故責任強制保險|机动车交通事故责任强制保险[ji1 dong4 che1 jiao1 tong1 shi4 gu4 ze2 ren4 qiang2 zhi4 bao3 xian3])
交情匪浅	jiao	qian	to be very close; to understand each other
交感神经	jiao	jing	sympathetic nervous system
交换代数	jiao	shu	(math.) commutative algebra
交换代数学	jiao	xue	(math.) commutative algebra
交换以太网络	jiao	luo	switched Ethernet
交换价值	jiao	zhi	exchange value
交换器	jiao	qi	(telecom or network) switch
交换律	jiao	lv	(math.) commutative property
交换机	jiao	ji	switch (telecommunications)
交换生	jiao	sheng	exchange student
交换码	jiao	ma	interchange code; computer coding for characters, including Chinese
交换网路	jiao	lu	switched network
交换虚电路	jiao	lu	Switched Virtual Circuit; SVC
交接班	jiao	ban	to change shift
交易会	jiao	hui	trade fair
交易员	jiao	yuan	dealer; trader
交易市场	jiao	chang	exchange; trading floor
交易所	jiao	suo	exchange; stock exchange
交易所交易基金	jiao	jin	exchange-traded fund (ETF)
交易日	jiao	ri	(finance) trading day
交易者	jiao	zhe	dealer
交易额	jiao	e	sum or volume of business transactions; turnover
交朋友	jiao	you	to make friends; (dialect) to start an affair with sb
交杯酒	jiao	jiu	formal exchange of cups of wine between bride and groom as traditional wedding ceremony
交款单	jiao	dan	payment slip
交汇处	jiao	chu	confluence (of two rivers); junction (of roads); (transport) interchange
交流电	jiao	dian	alternating current
交流道	jiao	dao	(Tw) highway interchange; (fig.) channel of communication
交浅言深	jiao	shen	(idiom) to talk intimately while being comparative strangers
交管所	jiao	suo	DMV (department of motor vehicles) (abbr. for 公安局交通管理局車輛管理所|公安局交通管理局车辆管理所)
交粮本	jiao	ben	to hand in one's ration cards; to die
交臂失之	jiao	zhi	to miss sb by a narrow chance; to miss an opportunity
交谊舞	jiao	wu	social dance; ballroom dancing
交货期	jiao	qi	delivery time (time between ordering goods and receiving the delivery); date of delivery
交通协管员	jiao	yuan	traffic warden
交通卡	jiao	ka	public transportation card; prepaid transit card; subway pass
交通堵塞	jiao	se	road congestion; traffic jam
交通大学	jiao	xue	abbr. for 上海交通大學|上海交通大学 Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 西安交通大學|西安交通大学 Xia'an Jiaotong University, 國立交通大學|国立交通大学 National Chiao Tung University (Taiwan) etc
交通工具	jiao	ju	means of transportation; vehicle
交通意外	jiao	wai	traffic accident; car crash
交通拥挤	jiao	ji	traffic congestion
交通枢纽	jiao	niu	traffic hub
交通标志	jiao	zhi	traffic sign
交通灯	jiao	deng	traffic light
交通立体化	jiao	hua	grade separation (civil engineering)
交通管理局	jiao	ju	department of transport
交通肇事罪	jiao	zui	culpable driving causing serious damage or injury
交通规则	jiao	ze	traffic rules; rules of the road
交通警卫	jiao	wei	road traffic policing
交通警察	jiao	cha	traffic police
交通费	jiao	fei	transport costs
交通车	jiao	che	shuttle bus (typically provided for employees or students by a company or school)
交通运输部	jiao	bu	PRC Ministry of Transport (MOT)
交通部	jiao	bu	Department of Transportation; (PRC) Ministry of Transport
交通银行	jiao	hang	Bank of Communications
交通锥	jiao	zhui	traffic cone; road cone
交通阻塞	jiao	se	traffic jam
交际舞	jiao	wu	social dance; ballroom dance
交际花	jiao	hua	(female) social butterfly; socialite; courtesan
亦敌亦友	yi	you	(idiom) to be both friend and foe to each other; to have a friendly rivalry
亦步亦趋	yi	qu	to blindly follow suit (idiom); to imitate slavishly; to do what everyone else is doing
产业化	chan	hua	to industrialize; industrialization
产业工人	chan	ren	industrial worker
产业链	chan	lian	industry value chain
产业集群	chan	qun	industrial cluster
产前检查	chan	cha	prenatal checkup; antenatal examination
产后抑郁	chan	yu	postpartum depression
产后抑郁症	chan	zheng	postpartum depression
产品经理	chan	li	product manager
产品结构	chan	gou	(in business strategy) product mix; product portfolio; composition of a company's product lines or offerings
产地证	chan	zheng	certificate of origin (CO or CoO) (commerce)
产权转让	chan	rang	transfer of property rights; (real estate) title transfer
产油国	chan	guo	oil-producing countries
产粮区	chan	qu	food growing area
产粮大省	chan	sheng	major agricultural province
产经新闻	chan	wen	Business News; Sankei Shimbun (Tokyo daily)
产褥期	chan	qi	postnatal period; puerperium (period of six weeks after childbirth)
产褥热	chan	re	postnatal fever; puerperal fever; childbed fever
亨丁顿舞蹈症	heng	zheng	Huntington's disease
亨利五世	heng	shi	Henry V (1387-1422), English warrior king, victor of Agincourt; History of Henry V by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚[Sha1 shi4 bi3 ya4]
亨廷顿舞蹈症	heng	zheng	Huntington's disease
亨德尔	heng	er	George Frideric Handel (1685–1759), German-born British composer
亨格洛	heng	luo	Hengelo, city in the Netherlands
享乐主义	xiang	yi	hedonism
享乐主义者	xiang	zhe	hedonist
享清福	xiang	fu	to live in ease and comfort
京九铁路	jing	lu	JingJiu (Beijing-Kowloon) railway
京二胡	jing	hu	jing'erhu, a two-stringed fiddle intermediate in size and pitch between the jinghu 京胡 and erhu 二胡, used to accompany Chinese opera; also called 京胡
京华时报	jing	bao	Beijing Times, a Chinese-language daily newspaper based in Beijing, published by People's Daily 2001–2017
京口区	jing	qu	Jingkou, a district of Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
京山市	jing	shi	Jingshan, a county-level city in Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
京巴狗	jing	gou	Pekingese (dog breed)
京广铁路	jing	lu	Jing-Guang (Beijing-Guangzhou) Railway
京斯敦	jing	dun	Kingstown, capital of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; (Tw) Kingston, capital of Jamaica
京杭大运河	jing	he	the Grand Canal, 1800 km from Beijing to Hangzhou, built starting from 486 BC
京杭运河	jing	he	the Grand Canal, 1800 km from Beijing to Hangzhou, built starting from 486 BC
京沪高铁	jing	tie	Beijing-Shanghai High-Speed Railway, completed in 2010; abbr. for 京滬高速鐵路|京沪高速铁路
京津冀	jing	ji	Jing-Jin-Ji (Beijing, Tianjin and Hebei Province)
京片子	jing	zi	Beijing dialect
京畿道	jing	dao	Gyeonggi Province, South Korea, surrounding Seoul and Incheon, capital Suweon City 水原市[Shui3 yuan2 shi4]
京郊日报	jing	bao	Beijing Suburbs Daily, newspaper in operation 1980-2018
京都府	jing	fu	Kyoto (prefecture in Japan)
京都念慈庵	jing	an	King-to Nin Jiom, or just Nin Jiom, manufacturer of 枇杷膏[pi2 pa2 gao1] cough medicine
亭亭玉立	ting	li	(idiom) (of a woman) slender and elegant; (idiom) (of a plant) tall and straight
亭台楼榭	ting	xie	see 亭臺樓閣|亭台楼阁[ting2 tai2 lou2 ge2]
亭台楼阁	ting	ge	pavilions and kiosks (in Chinese gardens)
亭湖区	ting	qu	Tinghu, a district of Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
亮堂堂	liang	tang	very bright; well-lit
亮底牌	liang	pai	to show one's hand; to lay one's cards on the table
亮星云	liang	yun	diffuse nebula
亮晶晶	liang	jing	gleaming; glistening
亮氨酸	liang	suan	leucine (Leu), an essential amino acid
亮眼人	liang	ren	(term used by the blind) sighted person; person with eyesight; perceptive person; observant person
亮菌甲素	liang	su	armillarisin (fungal enzyme used as antibiotic)
亮锃锃	liang	zeng	polished to a shine; shiny; glistening
亮闪闪	liang	shan	bright
亮黄灯	liang	deng	(lit.) to flash the yellow light; (fig.) to give a warning sign
亲临其境	qin	jing	to travel to a place personally (idiom)
亲兄弟明算帐	qin	zhang	even with your own brother, keep clear accounts (idiom)
亲力亲为	qin	wei	to do sth oneself
亲北京	qin	jing	pro-Beijing (stance, party etc)
亲卫队	qin	dui	SS or Schutzstaffel, paramilitary organization in Nazi Germany
亲和力	qin	li	(personal) warmth; approachability; accessibility
亲和性	qin	xing	compatibility; affinity (biology)
亲善大使	qin	shi	goodwill ambassador
亲如一家	qin	jia	family-like close relationship (idiom)
亲如手足	qin	zu	as close as brothers (idiom); deep friendship
亲子丼	qin	dong	oyakodon, a donburi topped with chicken and egg (orthographic borrowing from Japanese)
亲子游	qin	you	family vacation with an emphasis on activities for parents and children
亲子鉴定	qin	ding	paternity or maternity test
亲家公	qing	gong	father of one's child's spouse
亲家母	qing	mu	mother of one's child's spouse
亲密无间	qin	jian	(idiom) to have a very close relationship with each other
亲朋好友	qin	you	friends and family; kith and kin
亲民党	qin	dang	People First Party, Taiwan
亲水性	qin	xing	hydrophilic
亲水长廊	qin	lang	waterside promenade
亲爱精诚	qin	cheng	camaraderie
亲生子女	qin	nv	natural child
亲生骨肉	qin	rou	one's own flesh and blood
亲疏贵贱	qin	jian	close and distant, rich and poor (idiom); everyone; all possible relations
亲眼目睹	qin	du	to see for oneself; to see with one's own eyes
亲睦邻邦	qin	bang	friendly neighboring countries; to keep up good relations with neighboring countries
亲缘关系	qin	xi	phylogenetic relationship
亲自动手	qin	shou	to do the job oneself
亳州市	bo	shi	Bozhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
亵渎神明	xie	ming	to blaspheme; to commit sacrilege
亹亹不倦	wei	juan	on and on; relentlessly
人丁兴旺	ren	wang	(idiom) to be a flourishing family with many descendants
人不为己天诛地灭	ren	mie	Look out for yourself, or heaven and earth will combine to destroy you.; Every man for himself, and the Devil take the hindmost.
人不可貌相	ren	xiang	you can't judge a person by appearance (idiom); you can't judge a book by its cover; often in combination 人不可貌相，海水不可斗量[ren2 bu4 ke3 mao4 xiang4 , hai3 shui3 bu4 ke3 dou3 liang2]
人不知鬼不觉	ren	jue	in absolute secrecy
人世间	ren	jian	the secular world
人中龙凤	ren	feng	a giant among men (idiom)
人为刀俎我为鱼肉	ren	rou	(lit.) to be the meat on sb's chopping block (idiom); (fig.) to be at sb's mercy
人为土	ren	tu	anthrosol (soil taxonomy)
人为财死鸟为食亡	ren	wang	lit. human beings will die for riches, just as birds will for food (idiom); fig. man will do anything in his means to become rich
人之初性本善	ren	shan	man at birth is fundamentally good in nature (the first two lines of Three Character Classic 三字經|三字经[San1 zi4 Jing1])
人之将死其言也善	ren	shan	words of a man on his deathbed always come from the heart (proverb)
人之常情	ren	qing	human nature (idiom); a behavior that is only natural
人事不知	ren	zhi	to have lost consciousness
人事处	ren	chu	human resources department
人事管理	ren	li	personnel management
人事部	ren	bu	personnel office; human resources (HR)
人事部门	ren	men	personnel office
人云亦云	ren	yun	to say what everyone says (idiom); to conform to what one perceives to be the majority view; to follow the herd
人五人六	ren	liu	(idiom) to make a show of being decent and proper; to display phony or hypocritical behavior
人人有责	ren	ze	it is everyone's duty
人人皆知	ren	zhi	known to everyone
人人网	ren	wang	Renren (Chinese social networking website)
人仰马翻	ren	fan	to suffer a crushing defeat (idiom); in a pitiful state; in a complete mess
人传人	ren	ren	transmitted person-to-person
人体器官	ren	guan	human organ
人体工学	ren	xue	ergonomics
人体工学椅	ren	yi	ergonomic chair
人体工程学	ren	xue	ergonomics
人体解剖	ren	pou	human anatomy
人体解剖学	ren	xue	human anatomy
人偶戏	ren	xi	puppet show
人力接龙	ren	long	bucket brigade; human chain
人力资源	ren	yuan	human resources
人力车	ren	che	rickshaw
人力车夫	ren	fu	rickshaw puller
人去楼空	ren	kong	(lit.) the occupants have gone and the place is now empty (idiom); (fig.) (of a dwelling) empty; deserted
人参果	ren	guo	fictional fruit in the classic Chinese novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4]; pepino melon
人口学	ren	xue	demography
人口密度	ren	du	population density
人口密集	ren	ji	densely populated
人口数	ren	shu	population
人口普查	ren	cha	census
人口稠密	ren	mi	populous
人口红利	ren	li	(economics) demographic dividend
人口统计学	ren	xue	population studies; population statistics
人口调查	ren	cha	census
人口贩运	ren	yun	trafficking in persons; human trafficking
人各有所好	ren	hao	everyone has their likes and dislikes; there is no accounting for taste; chacun son goût
人命关天	ren	tian	human life is beyond value (idiom)
人喊马嘶	ren	si	lit. people shouting and horses neighing (idiom); fig. tumultuous; hubbub
人困马乏	ren	fa	riders tired and horses weary (idiom); worn out; exhausted
人在江湖身不由己	ren	ji	(proverb) you can't always do as you like; one has to compromise in this world
人声鼎沸	ren	fei	lit. a boiling cauldron of voices (idiom); hubbub; brouhaha
人外有人天外有天	ren	tian	in the wider world there are people more talented than oneself (idiom)
人多势众	ren	zhong	many men, a great force (idiom); many hands provide great strength; There is safety in numbers.
人头熟	ren	shu	to know a lot of people
人头狮身	ren	shen	sphinx
人头税	ren	shui	poll tax
人头马	ren	ma	Rémy Martin cognac
人如其名	ren	ming	(idiom) to live up to one's name; true to one's name
人字形	ren	xing	V-shape; chevron; herringbone
人字拖	ren	tuo	flip-flops (abbr. for 人字拖鞋[ren2 zi4 tuo1 xie2])
人字拖鞋	ren	xie	flip-flops; flip-flop sandals; thongs
人字洞	ren	dong	Renzidong palaeolithic archaeological site at Fanchang 繁昌[Fan2 chang1], Anhui
人定胜天	ren	tian	man can conquer nature (idiom); human wisdom can prevail over nature
人家牵驴你拔橛	ren	jue	see 別人牽驢你拔橛子|别人牵驴你拔橛子[bie2 ren5 qian1 lu:2 ni3 ba2 jue2 zi5]
人寿保险	ren	xian	life insurance
人寿年丰	ren	feng	long-lived people, rich harvests (idiom); stable and affluent society; prosperity
人尖儿	ren	r	outstanding individual; person of great ability
人尽其才	ren	cai	employ one's talent to the fullest; everyone gives of their best
人尽可夫	ren	fu	(idiom) (of a woman) promiscuous; loose
人尽皆知	ren	zhi	see 盡人皆知|尽人皆知[jin4 ren2 jie1 zhi1]
人山人海	ren	hai	(idiom) multitude; vast crowd
人工受孕	ren	yun	artificial insemination
人工吹气	ren	qi	to inflate using one's breath; (in CPR) to give a rescue breath
人工呼吸	ren	xi	artificial respiration (medicine)
人工岛	ren	dao	artificial island
人工授精	ren	jing	artificial insemination
人工智慧	ren	hui	(Tw) artificial intelligence
人工智能	ren	neng	artificial intelligence (AI)
人工林	ren	lin	planted forest
人工概念	ren	nian	artificial concept
人工河	ren	he	canal; man-made waterway
人工流产	ren	chan	abortion
人工湖	ren	hu	artificial lake
人工耳蜗	ren	wo	cochlear implant
人工费	ren	fei	labor cost
人微言轻	ren	qing	(idiom) what lowly people think counts for little
人心不古	ren	gu	(idiom) moral standards are much lower now than in former times
人心不足蛇吞象	ren	xiang	a man who is never content is like a snake trying to swallow an elephant (idiom)
人心惶惶	ren	huang	(idiom) everyone is anxious; (of a group of people) to feel anxious
人心所向	ren	xiang	that which is yearned for by the public
人心果	ren	guo	sapodilla, a tropical fruit bearing tree
人心涣散	ren	san	(of a nation, government etc) demoralized; disunited
人心隔肚皮	ren	pi	there is no knowing what is in a man's heart (idiom)
人心难测	ren	ce	hard to fathom a person's mind (idiom)
人怕出名猪怕壮	ren	zhuang	lit. people fear getting famous like pigs fear fattening up (for the slaughter); fig. fame has its price
人性化	ren	hua	(of a system or product etc) adapted to human needs; people-oriented; user-friendly
人情世故	ren	gu	worldly wisdom; the ways of the world; to know how to get on in the world
人情债	ren	zhai	debt of gratitude
人情味	ren	wei	human warmth; friendliness; human touch
人情味儿	ren	r	erhua variant of 人情味[ren2 qing2 wei4]
人憎狗厌	ren	yan	detestable (wordplay based on 神憎鬼厭|神憎鬼厌[shen2 zeng1 gui3 yan4])
人憎狗嫌	ren	xian	see 人憎狗厭|人憎狗厌[ren2 zeng1 gou3 yan4]
人所共知	ren	zhi	something that everybody knows
人才外流	ren	liu	brain drain
人才流失	ren	shi	brain drain; outflow of talent
人才济济	ren	ji	a galaxy of talent (idiom); a great number of competent people
人文主义	ren	yi	humanism
人文地理学	ren	xue	human geography
人文学	ren	xue	humanities
人文景观	ren	guan	place of cultural interest
人文社会学科	ren	ke	humanities and social sciences
人文社科	ren	ke	(abbr.) humanities and social sciences
人无完人	ren	ren	nobody is perfect; everyone has their defect
人无远虑必有近忧	ren	you	He who gives no thought to far-flung problems soon finds suffering nearby (idiom, from Analects).; Smug concentration on the here and now will lead to future sorrow.
人是铁饭是钢	ren	gang	one can't function properly on an empty stomach (idiom); an empty sack cannot stand upright
人智学	ren	xue	anthroposophy
人有三急	ren	ji	(jocular) to need to answer the call of nature
人有失手马有失蹄	ren	ti	lit. just as humans make mistakes, so can a horse stumble (idiom); fig. everyone makes mistakes; even the best fall down sometimes
人机工程	ren	cheng	ergonomics; man-machine engineering
人机界面	ren	mian	user interface
人权斗士	ren	shi	a human rights activist; a fighter for human rights
人权法	ren	fa	Human Rights law (Hong Kong)
人权观察	ren	cha	Human Rights Watch (HRW), New York-based non-governmental organization
人来人往	ren	wang	(idiom) people coming and going; bustling with activity
人来疯	ren	feng	to get hyped up in front of an audience; (of children) to play up in front of guests
人杰地灵	ren	ling	illustrious hero, spirit of the place (idiom); a place derives reflected glory from an illustrious son
人格化	ren	hua	to personalize; anthropomorphism
人格神	ren	shen	personal god
人格魅力	ren	li	personal charm; charisma
人模狗样	ren	yang	(idiom) to pose; to put on airs; Taiwan pr. [ren2 mo2 gou3 yang4]
人比人得死	ren	si	see 人比人，氣死人|人比人，气死人[ren2 bi3 ren2 , qi4 si3 ren2]
人比人气死人	ren	ren	(proverb) constantly comparing oneself to others only leads to dissatisfaction and envy
人民代表	ren	biao	deputy to the People's Congress
人民党	ren	dang	People's party (of various countries)
人民公敌	ren	di	the enemy of the people; the class enemy (Marxism)
人民公社	ren	she	people's commune
人民公社化	ren	hua	collectivization of agriculture (disastrous policy of communist Russia around 1930 and China in the 1950s)
人民内部矛盾	ren	dun	internal contradiction among the people (pretext for a purge)
人民团体	ren	ti	people's organization (e.g. labor unions, peasant associations, scholarly associations etc); mass organization
人民大会堂	ren	tang	the Great Hall of the People (in Beijing)
人民币	ren	bi	Renminbi, the official currency of the PRC (currency codes: RMB or CNY)
人民币元	ren	yuan	renminbi yuan (RMB), PRC currency unit
人民战争	ren	zheng	people's war, military strategy advocated by Mao whereby a large number of ordinary citizens provide support in a campaign
人民政府	ren	fu	people's government
人民日报	ren	bao	People's Daily (PRC newspaper)
人民民主专政	ren	zheng	people's democratic dictatorship
人民法院	ren	yuan	people's court (of law); people's tribunal
人民网	ren	wang	online version of the People's Daily, 人民日報|人民日报[Ren2 min2 Ri4 bao4]
人民英雄纪念碑	ren	bei	Monument to the People's Heroes, at Tiananmen Square
人民行动党	ren	dang	People's Action Party (ruling party in Singapore)
人民解放军	ren	jun	People's Liberation Army
人民警察	ren	cha	civil police; PRC police
人民银行	ren	hang	People's Bank of China
人民阵线	ren	xian	(politics) popular front
人流手术	ren	shu	an abortion; abbr. of 人工流產手術|人工流产手术
人浮于事	ren	shi	more hands than needed (idiom); too many cooks spoil the broth
人海战术	ren	shu	(military) human wave attack
人满为患	ren	huan	packed with people; overcrowded; overpopulation
人烟浩穰	ren	rang	see 人煙稠密|人烟稠密[ren2 yan1 chou2 mi4]
人烟稀少	ren	shao	no sign of human habitation (idiom); desolate
人烟稠密	ren	mi	(idiom) densely populated
人物描写	ren	xie	portrayal
人琴俱亡	ren	wang	person and lute have both vanished (idiom); death of a close friend
人生一世草木一春	ren	chun	Man has but one life, grass but one spring (idiom). fig. the brevity of human existence
人生何处不相逢	ren	feng	it's a small world (idiom)
人生地不熟	ren	shu	to be a stranger in a strange land (idiom); in an unfamiliar place without friends or family
人生如朝露	ren	lu	human life as the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
人生如梦	ren	meng	life is but a dream (idiom)
人生导师	ren	shi	life mentor
人生朝露	ren	lu	human life as the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
人生路不熟	ren	shu	everything is unfamiliar
人畜共患症	ren	zheng	zoonosis
人相学	ren	xue	physiognomy (judgment of a person's fate, character etc, based on facial features)
人社部	ren	bu	Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security (PRC); abbr. for 人力資源和社會保障部|人力资源和社会保障部
人称代词	ren	ci	personal pronoun
人穷志不穷	ren	qiong	(idiom) poor but with great ambitions; poor but principled
人穷志短	ren	duan	poor and with low expectations; poverty stunts ambition
人算不如天算	ren	suan	man proposes, God disposes (idiom); one's plans can be derailed by unforeseen events
人类乳突病毒	ren	du	human papillomavirus (HPV)
人类免疫缺陷病毒	ren	du	human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)
人类基因组计划	ren	hua	Human Genome Project
人类学	ren	xue	anthropology
人类学家	ren	jia	anthropologist
人类起源	ren	yuan	origin of mankind
人给家足	ren	zu	lit. each household provided for, enough for the individual (idiom); comfortably off
人缘儿	ren	r	erhua form of 人緣|人缘[ren2 yuan2]
人群管理特别用途车	ren	che	specialized crowd management vehicle, a riot control vehicle equipped with a water cannon, commonly known as water cannon vehicle 水炮車|水炮车[shui3 pao4 che1]
人老珠黄	ren	huang	(of a woman) old and faded
人肉搜索	ren	suo	to crowdsource information about sb or sth (typically as a form of vigilantism resulting in doxing)
人肉搜索引擎	ren	qing	(neologism, attested by 2003) human flesh search engine; crowdsourced online search for information about a person or event, typically resulting in doxing (now largely replaced by the clipped form 人肉搜索[ren2 rou4 sou1 suo3])
人肉沙包	ren	bao	human punching bag
人脸识别	ren	bie	(computing) facial recognition; (cognitive pyschology) face perception
人艰不拆	ren	chai	life is hard enough as it is; don't burst my bubble (Internet slang)
人蛇集团	ren	tuan	human smuggling syndicate; snakehead gang
人行区	ren	qu	pedestrian precinct
人行地下通道	ren	dao	pedestrian underpass
人行横道	ren	dao	crosswalk; pedestrian crossing
人行横道线	ren	xian	crosswalk; pedestrian crossing with zebra stripes
人行道	ren	dao	sidewalk
人见人爱	ren	ai	loved by all; to have universal appeal
人言可畏	ren	wei	gossip is a fearful thing (idiom)
人言啧啧	ren	ze	everyone comments disapprovingly (idiom)
人言籍籍	ren	ji	tongues are wagging (idiom)
人证物证	ren	zheng	human testimony and material evidence
人谁无过	ren	guo	Everyone makes mistakes (idiom)
人财两失	ren	shi	see 人財兩空|人财两空[ren2 cai2 liang3 kong1]
人财两得	ren	de	to succeed in both love and business
人财两旺	ren	wang	thriving; (of a city) populous and wealthy; (of a family) large and prosperous
人财两空	ren	kong	(idiom) to suffer the departure of sb (talented staff or one's spouse etc) and a financial loss as well; to get burned both romantically and financially
人贩子	ren	zi	human trafficker
人赃俱获	ren	huo	(of a thief, smuggler etc) to be caught with stolen or illegal goods; to be caught red-handed
人走茶凉	ren	liang	lit. when people leave, the tea cools (idiom); fig. when sb is no longer in a position of power, others cease to care about him
人身事故	ren	gu	accident causing injury or death
人身安全	ren	quan	personal safety
人身攻击	ren	ji	personal attack
人身权	ren	quan	one's personal rights
人车混行	ren	xing	pedestrian-vehicle mixed use
人迹罕至	ren	zhi	lit. men's footprints are rare (idiom); fig. off the beaten track; lonely
人造丝	ren	si	rayon
人造卫星	ren	xing	artificial satellite
人造天体	ren	ti	artificial satellite
人造奶油	ren	you	margarine
人造牛油	ren	you	margarine
人造纤维	ren	wei	man-made fiber
人造语言	ren	yan	artificial language; constructed language; conlang
人造革	ren	ge	artificial leather
人造黄油	ren	you	margarine
人道主义	ren	yi	humanism; humanitarian (aid)
人道救援	ren	yuan	humanitarian aid
人间佛教	ren	jiao	Humanistic Buddhism
人间喜剧	ren	ju	La Comédie humaine, series of novels by 19th century French novelist Honoré de Balzac 巴爾扎克|巴尔扎克[Ba1 er3 zha1 ke4]
人间地狱	ren	yu	hell on earth (idiom); suffering the torments of Buddhist hell while still alive; fig. having an uncomfortable time
人间天堂	ren	tang	heaven on Earth; nickname for the city Suzhou
人间清醒	ren	xing	(neologism c. 2021) to keep one's senses; not get carried away; not let success go to one's head
人间蒸发	ren	fa	to vanish; to disappear from the face of the earth
人际关系	ren	xi	interpersonal relationship
人面兽心	ren	xin	(lit.) human face, beastly heart (idiom); (fig.) mild in appearance but malicious in nature
人马座	ren	zuo	Sagittarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
人马臂	ren	bi	Sagittarius spiral arm (of our galaxy)
人高马大	ren	da	tall and strong
亿万富翁	yi	weng	billionaire; multimillionaire
亿万富豪	yi	hao	multimillionaire
什一奉献	shi	xian	tithing
什么事	shen	shi	What's up?; Is something the matter?; (coll.) (used in rhetorical questions of the form 關|关[guan1] + {person} + 什麼事|什么事[shen2 me5 shi4] "what business is it of {person}'s?; what's it to {person}?")
什么人	shen	ren	who?; what (kind of) person?
什么地方	shen	fang	somewhere; someplace; where
什么好说	shen	shuo	sth pertinent to say
什么时候	shen	hou	when?; at what time?
什么样	shen	yang	what kind?; what sort?
什么的	shen	de	and so on; and so forth; and what not
什么风把你吹来的	shen	de	What brings you here? (idiom)
什么鬼	shen	gui	(coll.) what the hell?; what on earth? (expression of confusion, disbelief or annoyance)
什刹海	shi	hai	Shichahai, scenic area of northwest Beijing with three lakes
什叶派	shi	pai	Shia sect (of Islam)
什邡市	shi	shi	Shifang, a county-level city in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
什锦果盘	shi	pan	mixed fruit salad
仁义道德	ren	de	compassion, duty, propriety and integrity (idiom); all the traditional virtues; mainly used sarcastically, to mean hypocritical
仁人义士	ren	shi	those with lofty ideals (idiom); men of vision
仁人君子	ren	zi	people of good will (idiom); charitable person
仁人志士	ren	shi	gentleman aspiring to benevolence (idiom); people with lofty ideals
仁化县	ren	xian	Renhua, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
仁和区	ren	qu	Renhe, a district of Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
仁和县	ren	xian	Renhe county in Zhejiang
仁寿县	ren	xian	Renshou, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
仁布县	ren	xian	Rinbung, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
仁心仁术	ren	shu	benevolent heart and skillful execution (idiom, from Mencius); charitable in thought and deed
仁怀县	ren	xian	Renhuai county in Zunyi prefecture 遵義|遵义, Guizhou
仁怀市	ren	shi	Renhuai, a county-level city in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
仁民爱物	ren	wu	love to all creatures (idiom, from Mencius); universal benevolence
仁波切	ren	qie	Rinpoche (Tibetan honorific)
仁爱区	ren	qu	Ren'ai or Jenai District of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
仁者见仁智者见智	ren	zhi	The benevolent sees benevolence, the wise sees wisdom.; Different views are admissible. (idiom)
仁至义尽	ren	jin	extreme benevolence, utmost duty (idiom); meticulous virtue and attention to duty
仁言利博	ren	bo	Words of benevolence apply universally (idiom). Humanitarian expressions benefit all.
仅作参考	jin	kao	for reference only
仅供参考	jin	kao	for reference only
仅次于	jin	yu	second only to ...; ranking behind only ...
仅此而已	jin	yi	(idiom) that's all; just this and nothing more
仇人相见分外眼红	chou	hong	when the enemies come face to face, their eyes blaze with hatred (idiom)
仇外心理	chou	li	xenophobia
仇恨罪	chou	zui	hate crime
仇恨罪行	chou	xing	hate crime
今不如昔	jin	xi	things are not as good as they used to be
今体诗	jin	shi	same as 近體詩|近体诗[jin4 ti3 shi1]
今儿个	jin	ge	(coll.) today
今古文	jin	wen	Former Han dynasty study or rewriting of classical texts such as the Confucian six classics 六經|六经[Liu4 jing1]
今文经	jin	jing	Former Han dynasty school of Confucian scholars
今文经学	jin	xue	Former Han dynasty school of Confucian scholars
今日事今日毕	jin	bi	never put off until tomorrow what you can do today (idiom)
今日头条	jin	tiao	Toutiao, personalized content recommendation app
今时今日	jin	ri	this day and age (dialect)
今朝有酒今朝醉	jin	zui	to live in the moment (idiom); to live every day as if it were one's last; to enjoy while one can
今非昔比	jin	bi	(idiom) things are very different now; times have changed
介之推	jie	tui	Jie Zhitui (7th century BC), legendary selfless subject of Duke Wen of Jin 晉文公|晋文公[Jin4 Wen2 gong1], in whose honor the Qingming festival 清明[Qing1 ming2] (Pure brightness or tomb-sweeping festival) is said to have been initiated
介休市	jie	shi	Jiexiu, a county-level city in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
介值定理	jie	li	intermediate value theorem (math.)
介子推	jie	tui	see 介之推[Jie4 Zhi1 tui1]
介电常数	jie	shu	dielectric constant
介系词	jie	ci	(Tw) preposition
介绍信	jie	xin	letter of introduction; recommendation letter; reference
介质访问控制	jie	zhi	Medium Access Control; MAC
介质访问控制层	jie	ceng	(computing) media access control layer (MAC layer)
从一而终	cong	zhong	faithful unto death (i.e. Confucian ban on widow remarrying)
从业人员	cong	yuan	employee; person employed in a trade or profession
从业者	cong	zhe	people in the (aforementioned) industry; practitioner; industry professional
从中作梗	cong	geng	(idiom) to deliberately create obstacles; to obstruct from behind the scenes; to throw a wrench in the works
从井救人	cong	ren	to jump into a well to rescue sb else (idiom); fig. to help others at the risk to oneself
从今以后	cong	hou	from now on; henceforward
从从容容	cong	rong	unhurried; all in good time
从化区	cong	qu	Conghua, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
从善如流	cong	liu	readily following good advice (idiom); willing to accept other people's views
从善如登从恶如崩	cong	beng	doing good is like a hard climb, doing evil is like an easy fall (idiom)
从天而降	cong	jiang	(idiom) to fall from the sky; (idiom) (fig.) to appear unexpectedly; to drop into one's lap
从头到尾	cong	wei	from start to finish; from head to tail; the whole (thing)
从头到脚	cong	jiao	from head to foot
从实招来	cong	lai	to own up to the facts
从容不迫	cong	po	calm; unruffled
从心所欲	cong	yu	whatever you like; to do as one pleases
从早到晚	cong	wan	from morning till night; from dawn to dusk; all day long
从来不	cong	bu	never
从来没	cong	mei	have never; has never
从来没有	cong	you	there has never been; has never had; (before a verb) has never
从此往后	cong	hou	from here on
从江县	cong	xian	Congjiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
从谏如流	cong	liu	to follow admonition as natural flow (idiom); to accept criticism or correction (even from one's inferiors)
从里到外	cong	wai	from the inside to the outside; through and through; thoroughly
从长计议	cong	yi	(idiom) to take one's time making a decision; to consider at length
从难从严	cong	yan	to impose demanding and strict conditions (esp. in training); to train under deliberately difficult and strict conditions
从零开始	cong	shi	to start from scratch
仓山区	cang	qu	Cangshan, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
仓皇出逃	cang	tao	to run off in a great panic (idiom)
仓皇失措	cang	cuo	flustered; ruffled; disconcerted
他乡遇故知	ta	zhi	meeting an old friend in a foreign place (idiom)
他他米	ta	mi	see 榻榻米[ta4 ta4 mi3]
他加禄语	ta	yu	Tagalog (language)
他喵的	ta	de	drat; frick; (euphemistic variant of 他媽的|他妈的[ta1 ma1 de5])
他妈的	ta	de	(taboo curse) damn it!; fucking
他娘的	ta	de	same as 他媽的|他妈的[ta1 ma1 de5]
他山之石可以攻玉	ta	yu	lit. the other mountain's stone can polish jade (idiom); to improve oneself by accepting criticism from outside; to borrow talent from abroad to develop the nation effectively
他者化	ta	hua	othering; otherization
他者性	ta	xing	otherness
仗义执言	zhang	yan	to speak out for justice (idiom); to take a stand on a matter of principle
仗义疏财	zhang	cai	to help the needy for justice (idiom); to be loyal to one's friends and generous to the needy
仗势欺人	zhang	ren	to take advantage of one's position to bully people (idiom); to kick people around
付之一叹	fu	tan	to dismiss with a sigh (idiom); a hopeless case
付之一炬	fu	ju	to put to the torch (idiom); to commit to the flames; to burn sth down deliberately
付之一笑	fu	xiao	(idiom) to dismiss sth with a laugh; to laugh it off
付之丙丁	fu	ding	to burn down (idiom)
付之东流	fu	liu	to commit to the waters (idiom); to lose sth irrevocably
付之度外	fu	wai	to think nothing of doing sth (idiom); to do sth without considering the risks; to leave out of consideration
付之行动	fu	dong	to put into action; to transform into acts
付款方式	fu	shi	terms of payment; payment method
付款条件	fu	jian	terms of payment
付诸东流	fu	liu	wasted effort
付诸实施	fu	shi	to put into practice; to carry out (idiom)
付费墙	fu	qiang	(computing) paywall (loanword)
仙人掌	xian	zhang	cactus
仙人掌杆菌	xian	jun	(microbiology) Bacillus cereus
仙人掌果	xian	guo	prickly pear
仙人球	xian	qiu	ball cactus
仙人跳	xian	tiao	confidence trick in which a man is lured by an attractive woman
仙八色鸫	xian	dong	(bird species of China) fairy pitta (Pitta nympha)
仙后座	xian	zuo	Cassiopeia (constellation)
仙女座	xian	zuo	Andromeda (constellation)
仙女座大星云	xian	yun	great nebula in Andromeda or Andromeda galaxy M31
仙女座星系	xian	xi	Andromeda galaxy M31
仙女星座	xian	zuo	Andromeda constellation (galaxy) M31
仙女星系	xian	xi	Andromeda galaxy M31
仙女棒	xian	bang	sparkler (handheld firework); (slang) vibrator (sex toy)
仙姿玉色	xian	se	heavenly beauty, jewel colors (idiom); unusually beautiful lady
仙客来	xian	lai	cyclamen (loanword)
仙居县	xian	xian	Xianju, a county in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
仙山琼阁	xian	ge	jeweled palace in the fairy mountain
仙方儿	xian	r	erhua variant of 仙方[xian1 fang1]
仙桃市	xian	shi	Xiantao sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
仙游县	xian	xian	Xianyou, a county in Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
仙王座	xian	zuo	Cepheus (constellation)
仡佬族	ge	zu	Gelao ethnic group
代之以	dai	yi	(has been) replaced with; (its) place has been taken by
代人受过	dai	guo	to take the blame for sb else; to be made a scapegoat
代代相传	dai	chuan	passed on from generation to generation (idiom); to hand down
代利斯	dai	si	Dallys, Algerian seaport and naval base
代可可脂	dai	zhi	(loanword) cocoa butter substitute
代名词	dai	ci	pronoun; synonym; byword
代孕母亲	dai	qin	surrogate mother
代字号	dai	hao	swung dash; tilde (~)
代客泊车	dai	che	valet parking
代尔夫特	dai	te	Delft, Zuid-Holland, the Netherlands
代拿买特	dai	te	(loanword) dynamite
代收货款	dai	kuan	collect on delivery (COD)
代数几何	dai	he	algebraic geometry
代数几何学	dai	xue	algebraic geometry
代数函数	dai	shu	(math.) algebraic function
代数函数论	dai	lun	algebraic function theory (math.)
代数和	dai	he	algebraic sum
代数学	dai	xue	algebra (as branch of math.)
代数式	dai	shi	(math.) algebraic expression
代数拓扑	dai	pu	(math.) algebraic topology
代数数域	dai	yu	algebraic number field (math.)
代数方程	dai	cheng	algebraic equation
代数曲线	dai	xian	(math.) algebraic curve
代数曲面	dai	mian	algebraic surface
代数簇	dai	cu	algebraic variety (math.)
代数结构	dai	gou	algebraic structure
代数群	dai	qun	algebraic group (math.)
代数量	dai	liang	algebraic quantity
代替父母	dai	mu	in place of sb's parents; in loco parentis (law)
代替者	dai	zhe	a substitute; a replacement
代步车	dai	che	vehicle; (esp.) mobility vehicle (mobility scooter, electric wheelchair, Segway etc)
代理人	dai	ren	agent
代理商	dai	shang	agent
代理孕母	dai	mu	(Tw) surrogacy; surrogate pregnancy; surrogate mother
代码段	dai	duan	code segment
代码页	dai	ye	code page
代罪羔羊	dai	yang	scapegoat
代表人物	dai	wu	representative individual (of a school of thought)
代表作	dai	zuo	representative work (of an author or artist)
代表团	dai	tuan	delegation; CL:個|个[ge4]
代表处	dai	chu	representative office
代表性	dai	xing	representativeness; representative; typical
代表队	dai	dui	delegation
代言人	dai	ren	spokesperson
代金券	dai	quan	voucher; coupon
代销店	dai	dian	outlet; commission shop; agency
令人不快	ling	kuai	unpleasant; objectionable
令人发指	ling	zhi	(idiom) to make one feel a sense of revulsion; abhorrent; heinous; deeply disturbing
令人振奋	ling	fen	inspiring; exciting; rousing
令人满意	ling	yi	satisfying; satisfactory
令人瞩目	ling	mu	(idiom) attention-grabbing; noteworthy
令尊令堂	ling	tang	(honorific) your parents
令牌环	ling	huan	token ring
令牌环网	ling	wang	token ring network
令狐德棻	ling	fen	Linghu Defen (583-666), Tang dynasty historian, compiler of History of Zhou of the Northern dynasties 周書|周书
令行禁止	ling	zhi	(lit.) orders are carried out and prohibitions are observed (idiom); (fig.) to execute every order without fail
以一驭万	yi	wan	to control a key point is to be master of the situation (idiom)
以下犯上	yi	shang	to disrespect one's superiors; to offend one's elders
以不变应万变	yi	bian	(idiom) to deal with varying circumstances by adhering to a basic principle
以人为本	yi	ben	people-oriented
以人名命名	yi	ming	to name sth after a person; named after; eponymous
以人废言	yi	yan	to reject a word because of the speaker (idiom, from Analects); to judge on preference between advisers rather than the merits of the case
以债养债	yi	zhai	debt nurtures more debt (idiom)
以假乱真	yi	zhen	(idiom) to pass off the fake as genuine; to blur the line between fake and real so convincingly that the fake is mistaken for the real thing
以偏概全	yi	quan	(lit.) to take a part for the whole; to generalize
以儆效尤	yi	you	(idiom) to warn against following bad examples; as a warning to others
以利于	yi	yu	for the sake of; in order to
以利亚	yi	ya	Elijah (Old Testament prophet)
以利亚撒	yi	sa	Eleazar (son of Eluid)
以利亚敬	yi	jing	Eliakim (name, Hebrew: God will raise up); Eliakim, servant of the Lord in Isaiah 22:20; Eliakim, son of Abiud and father of Azor in Matthew 1:13
以华制华	yi	hua	use Chinese collaborators to subdue the Chinese (imperialist policy)
以卵击石	yi	shi	lit. to strike a stone with egg (idiom); to attempt the impossible; to invite disaster by overreaching oneself
以史为鉴	yi	jian	to learn from history (idiom)
以和为贵	yi	gui	harmony is to be prized
以备不测	yi	ce	to be prepared for accidents
以太坊	yi	fang	Ethereum
以太网	yi	wang	Ethernet
以太网络	yi	luo	Ethernet
以失败告终	yi	zhong	to end in failure
以夷制夷	yi	yi	to use foreigners to subdue foreigners (idiom); let the barbarians fight it out among themselves (traditional policy of successive dynasties); Use Western science and technology to counter imperialist encroachment. (late Qing modernizing slogan)
以子之矛攻子之盾	yi	dun	lit. use sb's spear to attack his shield (idiom, derived from Han Feizi 韓非子|韩非子); turning a weapon against its owner; fig. to attack an opponent using his own devices; hoist with his own petard
以少胜多	yi	duo	using the few to defeat the many (idiom); to win from a position of weakness
以工代赈	yi	zhen	to provide work to relieve poverty
以弗所	yi	suo	Ephesus, city of ancient Greece
以弗所书	yi	shu	Epistle of St Paul to the Ephesians
以弱胜强	yi	qiang	using the weak to defeat the strong (idiom); to win from a position of weakness
以强凌弱	yi	ruo	to use one's strength to bully the weak (idiom)
以微知著	yi	zhu	see 見微知著|见微知著[jian4 wei1 zhi1 zhu4]
以德报怨	yi	yuan	to return good for evil (idiom); to requite evil with good
以慎为键	yi	jian	to take caution as the key (idiom); to proceed very carefully
以斯帖	yi	tie	Esther (name)
以斯帖记	yi	ji	Book of Esther
以斯拉记	yi	ji	Book of Ezra
以暴制暴	yi	bao	to use violence to curb violence
以暴易暴	yi	bao	to replace one tyranny by another; to use violence against violence
以本人名	yi	ming	under one's own name; named after oneself
以权压法	yi	fa	to abuse power to crush the law
以权谋私	yi	si	to use one's position for personal gain (idiom)
以柔克刚	yi	gang	to use softness to conquer strength (idiom)
以正视听	yi	ting	(idiom) in order to set the record straight; to clarify matters for the public
以此为	yi	wei	to regard as; to treat as
以此类推	yi	tui	and so on; in a similar fashion
以死明志	yi	zhi	to demonstrate one's sincerity by dying
以毒攻毒	yi	du	to cure ills with poison (TCM); to fight evil with evil; set a thief to catch a thief
以汤沃沸	yi	fei	to manage a situation badly (idiom)
以沫相濡	yi	ru	see 相濡以沫[xiang1 ru2 yi3 mo4]
以法莲	yi	lian	Ephraim (city)
以泪洗面	yi	mian	to bathe one's face in tears (idiom)
以牙还牙	yi	ya	a tooth for a tooth (retaliation)
以物易物	yi	wu	to barter; barter
以直报怨以德报德	yi	de	to repay kindness with kindness, and repay enmity with justice (idiom, from Analects)
以眦睚杀人	yi	ren	to kill sb for a trifle
以眼还眼	yi	yan	an eye for an eye (idiom); fig. to use the enemy's methods against him; to give sb a taste of his own medicine
以眼还眼以牙还牙	yi	ya	an eye for an eye, a tooth for a tooth (idiom); fig. to use the enemy's methods against him; to give sb a taste of his own medicine
以示警戒	yi	jie	to serve as a warning (idiom)
以礼相待	yi	dai	to treat sb with due respect (idiom)
以老卖老	yi	lao	variant of 倚老賣老|倚老卖老[yi3 lao3 mai4 lao3]
以老大自居	yi	ju	regarding oneself as number one in terms of leadership, seniority or status
以至于	yi	yu	down to; up to; to the extent that...
以致于	yi	yu	with the result that
以色列	yi	lie	Israel
以色列人	yi	ren	an Israeli; an Israelite
以药养医	yi	yi	"drugs serving to nourish doctors", perceived problem in PRC medical practice
以虚带实	yi	shi	(idiom) to use the abstract to guide the concrete
以西结书	yi	shu	Book of Ezekiel
以言代法	yi	fa	to substitute one's words for the law (idiom); high-handedly putting one's orders above the law
以言代法以权压法	yi	fa	to substitute one's words for the law and abuse power to crush it (idiom); completely lawless behavior; Might makes right.
以讹传讹	yi	e	to spread falsehoods; to increasingly distort the truth; to pile errors on top of errors (idiom)
以貌取人	yi	ren	to judge sb by appearances (idiom)
以资证明	yi	ming	in support or witness hereof (idiom)
以赛亚书	yi	shu	Book of Isaiah
以身作则	yi	ze	to set an example (idiom); to serve as a model
以身报国	yi	guo	to give one's body for the nation (idiom); to spend one's whole life in the service of the country
以身抵债	yi	zhai	forced labor to repay a debt
以身相许	yi	xu	(of a woman) to give one's heart (to sb); (fig.) to devote oneself wholeheartedly to sb or sth
以身许国	yi	guo	to dedicate oneself to the cause of one's country (idiom)
以身试法	yi	fa	to challenge the law (idiom); to knowingly violate the law
以逸待劳	yi	lao	to wait at one's ease for the exhausted enemy; to nurture one's strength and bide one's time (idiom)
以邻为壑	yi	he	to use one's neighbor as a drain; to shift one's problems onto others (idiom)
以防万一	yi	yi	to guard against the unexpected (idiom); just in case; prepared for any eventualities
以飨读者	yi	zhe	for the benefit of the reader
以马内利	yi	li	Emanuel; Immanuel (name)
仪仗队	yi	dui	honor guard; guard of honor; the banner bearing contingent leading a military procession
仪器表	yi	biao	gauge
仪征市	yi	shi	Yizheng, a county-level city in Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
仪表放大器	yi	qi	instrumentation amplifier
仪表盘	yi	pan	dashboard; indicator panel
仪陇县	yi	xian	Yilong, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
仫佬族	mu	zu	Mulao ethnic group
仰人鼻息	yang	xi	to rely on others for the air one breathes (idiom); to depend on sb's whim for one's living
仰光大金塔	yang	ta	Great Pagoda of Yangon (Rangoon)
仰卧式	yang	shi	corpse pose (yoga)
仰卧起坐	yang	zuo	sit-up (physical exercise)
仰屋兴叹	yang	tan	to stare at the ceiling in despair; to find no way out; nothing you can do about it
仰屋著书	yang	shu	lit. to stare at the ceiling while writing a book (idiom); to put one's whole body and soul into a book
仰韶文化	yang	hua	(archaeology) Yangshao culture, a Neolithic culture (c. 5000–3000 BC) in the central Yellow River basin, known for painted pottery, millet farming and village settlements
仲夏夜之梦	zhong	meng	Midsummer night's dream, comedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚[Sha1 shi4 bi3 ya4]
仲巴县	zhong	xian	Zhongba, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
件件桩桩	jian	zhuang	see 樁樁件件|桩桩件件[zhuang1 zhuang1 jian4 jian4]
价值增殖	jia	zhi	valorization (in Marxist theory)
价值工程	jia	cheng	value engineering
价值标准	jia	zhun	values; standards
价值观	jia	guan	value system; personal or cultural values
价值连城	jia	cheng	invaluable; priceless
价值量	jia	liang	magnitude of value; labor value (in economics, the labor inherent in a commodity)
价廉物美	jia	mei	inexpensive and of good quality (idiom)
价格战	jia	zhan	price war
价格标签	jia	qian	price tag
价格表	jia	biao	price list; pricing table
价电子	jia	zi	valency electron; outer shell of electrons
任一个	ren	ge	any one of (a list of possibilities)
任丘市	ren	shi	Renqiu, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
任人唯亲	ren	qin	(idiom) to practice nepotism or cronyism in making appointments
任人唯贤	ren	xian	to appoint people according to their merits (idiom); appointment on the basis of ability and integrity
任人宰割	ren	ge	to get trampled on (idiom); to be taken advantage of
任其自然	ren	ran	to let things take their course (idiom); to leave it to nature; laissez-faire
任务栏	ren	lan	taskbar (computing)
任务管理器	ren	qi	(computing) task manager
任劳任怨	ren	yuan	to work hard without complaint (idiom)
任命状	ren	zhuang	certificate of appointment (to government office)
任城区	ren	qu	Rencheng, a district of Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
任天堂	ren	tang	Nintendo
任意球	ren	qiu	free kick (football); free throw (handball); free hit (field hockey)
任泽区	ren	qu	Renze, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
任职期间	ren	jian	term of office; while holding a post
任贤使能	ren	neng	to appoint the virtuous and use the able (idiom); appointment on the basis of ability and integrity
任达华	ren	hua	Simon Yam Tat-Wah (1955-), Hong Kong actor and film producer
任重而道远	ren	yuan	see 任重道遠|任重道远[ren4 zhong4 dao4 yuan3]
任重道远	ren	yuan	a heavy load and a long road; fig. to bear heavy responsibilities through a long struggle (cf Confucian Analects, 8.7)
份儿饭	fen	fan	set meal
份子钱	fen	qian	gift money (on the occasion of a wedding etc)
仿冒品	fang	pin	counterfeit object; imitation; fake
仿制品	fang	pin	counterfeit object; fake
仿制药	fang	yao	generic drug; generic medicine
仿射子空间	fang	jian	(math.) affine subspace
仿射空间	fang	jian	(math.) affine space
仿生学	fang	xue	bionics; bionicist
仿真服务器	fang	qi	emulation server
仿羊皮纸	fang	zhi	imitation parchment
企业主	qi	zhu	owner of enterprise
企业家	qi	jia	entrepreneur
企业社会责任	qi	ren	corporate social responsibility (CSR)
企业管理	qi	li	business management
企业管理硕士	qi	shi	Master of Business Administration (MBA)
企业联合组织	qi	zhi	syndicate (group of businesses)
企业集团	qi	tuan	business conglomerate
企图心	qi	xin	ambition; ambitious
企管硕士	qi	shi	Master of Business Administration (MBA)
伉俪情深	kang	shen	married couple very much in love; deep conjugal love
伊万卡	yi	ka	Ivanka (name)
伊丽莎白	yi	bai	Elizabeth (person name)
伊于胡底	yi	di	where will it stop?
伊利亚特	yi	te	the "Iliad", Homer's epic poem about the Trojan War
伊利埃斯库	yi	ku	Iliescu
伊利格瑞	yi	rui	Luce Irigaray (1930-), French psychoanalyst and feminist
伊利湖	yi	hu	Lake Erie, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
伊利诺	yi	nuo	Illinois, US state
伊利诺伊	yi	yi	Illinois, US state
伊势丹	yi	dan	Isetan, Japanese department store
伊吾县	yi	xian	Yiwu, a county in Hami City 哈密市[Ha1 mi4 Shi4], Xinjiang
伊塞克湖	yi	hu	Issyk-Kul (a large lake in eastern Kyrgyzstan)
伊壁鸠鲁	yi	lu	Epicurus (341-270 BC), ancient Greek philosopher
伊士曼柯达公司	yi	si	Eastman Kodak Company (US film company)
伊妹儿	yi	r	(loanword) email
伊媚儿	yi	r	variant of 伊妹兒|伊妹儿[yi1 mei4 r5]
伊宁县	yi	xian	Yining, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
伊宁市	yi	shi	Yining, a county-level city in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
伊尔库茨克	yi	ke	Irkutsk
伊尼亚斯	yi	si	Aeneas
伊尼伊德	yi	de	Aeneid
伊尼特	yi	te	Virgil's Aeneid (epic about the foundation of Rome)
伊川县	yi	xian	Yichuan, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
伊府面	yi	mian	see 伊麵|伊面[yi1 mian4]
伊思迈尔	yi	er	Ismail (name); Shah Ismail I (1487-1524), founder of Persian Safavid dynasty, reigned 1501-1524
伊戈尔	yi	er	Igor
伊戈尔斯	yi	si	Eagles (name)
伊拉克	yi	ke	Iraq
伊斯兰	yi	lan	Islam
伊斯兰国	yi	guo	Muslim countries; caliphate; Islamic State group (aka IS or ISIL or ISIS)
伊斯兰圣战组织	yi	zhi	Islamic Jihad (Palestinian armed faction)
伊斯兰堡	yi	bao	Islamabad, capital of Pakistan
伊斯兰教	yi	jiao	Islam
伊斯兰马巴德	yi	de	Islamabad, capital of Pakistan (Tw)
伊斯坦堡	yi	bao	(Tw) Istanbul
伊斯坦布尔	yi	er	Istanbul, Turkey
伊斯帕尼奥拉	yi	la	Hispaniola (Caribbean island including Haiti and the Dominican Republic)
伊斯曼	yi	man	Eastman (name); George Eastman (1854-1932), US inventor and founder of Kodak 柯達|柯达[Ke1 da2]; Max F. Eastman (1883-1969), US socialist writer, subsequently severe critic of USSR
伊斯法罕	yi	han	Isfahan province and city in central Iran
伊春市	yi	shi	Yichun, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
伊普西隆	yi	long	epsilon (Greek letter Εε)
伊曼纽尔	yi	er	Emanuel; Immanuel (name)
伊朗宪监会	yi	hui	Guardian Council of the Constitution of Iran
伊比利亚	yi	ya	Iberia; the Iberian peninsula
伊比利亚半岛	yi	dao	Iberian Peninsula
伊波拉	yi	la	Ebola (virus)
伊洛瓦底	yi	di	Irrawaddy or Ayeyarwady, the main river of Myanmar
伊犁哈萨克自治州	yi	zhou	Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
伊犁州	yi	zhou	see 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
伊犁河	yi	he	Ili River in central Asia
伊犁盆地	yi	di	the Yili basin around Urumqi in Xinjiang
伊玛目	yi	mu	imam (Islam) (loanword)
伊瑞克提翁庙	yi	miao	the Erechteum, Athens
伊甸园	yi	yuan	Garden of Eden
伊留申	yi	shen	Ilyushin, Russian plane maker
伊科病毒	yi	du	echovirus (RNA virus in genus Enterovirus)
伊索寓言	yi	yan	Aesop's Fables, a collection of fables attributed to Aesop
伊美区	yi	qu	Yimei, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
伊莉莎白	yi	bai	Elizabeth; also written 伊麗莎白|伊丽莎白
伊莉萨白	yi	bai	Elizabeth (name); also written 伊麗莎白|伊丽莎白
伊莱克斯	yi	si	Electrolux (Swedish manufacturer of home appliances)
伊萨卡	yi	ka	Ithaca, a Greek island; Ithaca, New York, location of Cornell University 康奈爾大學|康奈尔大学[Kang1 nai4 er3 Da4 xue2]
伊藤博文	yi	wen	Itō Hirobumi (1841–1909), Japan's first prime minister (served four terms), key figure in Japan's colonial expansion into Korea
伊通县	yi	xian	see 伊通滿族自治縣|伊通满族自治县[Yi1 tong1 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
伊通河	yi	he	Yitong River in Siping 四平[Si4 ping2], Jilin
伊通满族自治县	yi	xian	Yitong Manchu Autonomous County, in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
伊通火山群	yi	qun	Yitong volcanic area in Yitong Manchurian autonomous county 伊通滿族自治縣|伊通满族自治县, Siping, Jilin
伊通自然保护区	yi	qu	Yitong nature reserve in Yitong Manchurian autonomous county 伊通滿族自治縣|伊通满族自治县, Siping, Jilin
伊里奇	yi	qi	Ilyich or Illich (name)
伊金霍洛	yi	luo	Ejin Horo banner (Ejen Khoruu khoshuu) in Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
伊金霍洛旗	yi	qi	Ejin Horo banner (Ejen Khoruu khoshuu) in Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
伊顿公学	yi	xue	Eton public school (English elite school)
伊马姆	yi	mu	see 伊瑪目|伊玛目[yi1 ma3 mu4]
伍子胥	wu	xu	Wu Zixu (–484 BC), Chu-born strategist for Wu. After the King of Chu executed his family, he fled to Wu and masterminded Wu's invasion of Chu (506 BC), destroying its capital in a campaign that doubled as personal vengeance.
伍家岗	wu	gang	see 伍家崗區|伍家岗区[Wu3 jia1 gang3 Qu1]
伍家岗区	wu	qu	Wujiagang, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
伍廷芳	wu	fang	Wu Tingfang (1842-1922), diplomat and lawyer
伍德豪斯	wu	si	Woodhouse or Wodehouse (name)
伍斯特酱	wu	jiang	Worcestershire sauce
伏地挺身	fu	shen	(Tw) push-up (exercise)
伏地魔	fu	mo	Lord Voldemort, villain in the Harry Potter series
伏尔加格勒	fu	le	Volgograd, city in Russia on the Volga River 伏爾加河|伏尔加河[Fu2 er3 jia1 He2]
伏尔加河	fu	he	Volga River
伏尔泰	fu	tai	Voltaire (1694–1778), French Enlightenment writer and philosopher
伏明霞	fu	xia	Fu Mingxia (1978–), Chinese diver and Olympic champion
伏牛山	fu	shan	Funiu Mountains in southwestern Henan, eastern extension of the Qinling mountain range 秦嶺山脈|秦岭山脉[Qin2 ling3 Shan1 mai4]
伏特加	fu	jia	(loanword) vodka
伏特计	fu	ji	voltmeter
伏罗希洛夫	fu	fu	Kliment Voroshilov (1881–1969), Soviet politician and military commander
伏羲氏	fu	shi	Fuxi, legendary ruler in Chinese mythology credited with inventing fishing, trapping, and writing
伏都教	fu	jiao	Voodoo
伏隔核	fu	he	nucleus accumbens (anatomy)
伏龙凤雏	fu	chu	hidden genius (idiom)
伐木场	fa	chang	a logging area
伐木工	fa	gong	lumberjack; logger
休伊特	xiu	te	(surname) Hewitt
休伦湖	xiu	hu	Lake Huron, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
休养生息	xiu	xi	to recover; to recuperate
休士顿	xiu	dun	(Tw) Houston, Texas
休宁县	xiu	xian	Xiuning, a county in Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
休息室	xiu	shi	lobby; lounge
休戚相关	xiu	guan	to share the same interests (idiom); to be closely related; to be in the same boat
休斯敦	xiu	dun	Houston, Texas
休斯顿	xiu	dun	Houston, Texas
休旅车	xiu	che	sport utility vehicle (SUV)
休止符	xiu	fu	rest (music)
休氏旋木雀	xiu	que	(bird species of China) Hume's treecreeper (Certhia manipurensis)
休氏树莺	xiu	ying	(bird species of China) Hume's bush warbler (Horornis brunnescens)
休眠火山	xiu	shan	dormant volcano
休闲裤	xiu	ku	casual pants
休闲鞋	xiu	xie	leisure shoes
众人拾柴火焰高	zhong	gao	(lit.) when everybody gathers fuel, the flames are higher (proverb); (fig.) the more people, the more strength
众人敬仰	zhong	yang	universally admired; highly esteemed by everyone
众创空间	zhong	jian	hackerspace; hacklab; makerspace
众叛亲离	zhong	li	lit. people rebelling and friends deserting (idiom); fig. to find oneself utterly isolated
众口一词	zhong	ci	all of one voice; unanimous
众口同声	zhong	sheng	(of people) to be of one voice (idiom); unanimous
众口皆碑	zhong	bei	to be praised by everyone
众口铄金	zhong	jin	lit. public opinion is powerful enough to melt metal (idiom); fig. public clamor can obscure the actual truth; mass spreading of rumors can confuse right and wrong
众口难调	zhong	tiao	it's difficult to please everyone (idiom)
众寡悬殊	zhong	shu	(idiom) a great disparity in numerical strength
众志成城	zhong	cheng	unity of will is an impregnable stronghold (idiom)
众怒难犯	zhong	fan	(idiom) one cannot afford to incur public wrath; it is dangerous to incur the anger of the masses
众所周知	zhong	zhi	(idiom) as everyone knows
众擎易举	zhong	ju	many hands make light work (idiom)
众星拱月	zhong	yue	see 眾星捧月|众星捧月[zhong4 xing1 peng3 yue4]
众星拱辰	zhong	chen	lit. all the stars revolve around Polaris 北辰[Bei3 chen2] (idiom, from Analects); fig. to view sb as core figure; to group around a revered leader
众星捧月	zhong	yue	lit. all the stars cup themselves around the moon (idiom, from Analects); fig. to view sb as core figure; to group around a revered leader; to revolve around sb
众星攒月	zhong	yue	see 眾星捧月|众星捧月[zhong4 xing1 peng3 yue4]
众望所归	zhong	gui	(idiom) to enjoy popular support; to receive general approval
众目昭彰	zhong	zhang	lit. the masses are sharp-eyed (idiom); fig. one is subjected to the scrutiny of the general public
众目睽睽	zhong	kui	(idiom) (under) the public eye; the stares of many people
众盲摸象	zhong	xiang	multitude of blind people touch an elephant (idiom, from Nirvana sutra 大般涅槃經|大般涅盘经[da4 ban1 Nie4 pan2 jing1]); fig. unable to see the big picture; to mistake the part for the whole; unable to see the wood for the trees
众矢之的	zhong	di	lit. target of a multitude of arrows (idiom); the butt of public criticism; attacked on all sides
众议员	zhong	yuan	member of the House of Representatives
众议院	zhong	yuan	lower house of bicameral assembly; House of Representatives (USA); Chamber of Deputies
众说纷揉	zhong	rou	lit. diverse opinions confused and divided (idiom); opinions differ; controversial matters
众说纷纭	zhong	yun	opinions differ (idiom)
众说郛	zhong	fu	hub for diverse opinions
众香子	zhong	zi	allspice; Jamaican pepper (Pimenta dioica)
优先承购权	you	quan	prior purchase right; right of first refusal (ROFR); preemptive right to purchase
优先级	you	ji	(computing) priority level; (computing) precedence (of operators)
优先股	you	gu	preferred stock
优先认股权	you	quan	preemptive right (in share issue)
优哉游哉	you	zai	see 悠哉悠哉[you1 zai1 you1 zai1]
优尼科	you	ke	Unocal (US oil company)
优异奖	you	jiang	excellence award; merit award
优待券	you	quan	discount coupon; complimentary ticket
优待票	you	piao	reduced-price ticket (e.g. for students)
优惠券	you	quan	coupon
优惠贷款	you	kuan	(finance) concessional loan; soft loan
优柔寡断	you	duan	indecisive; irresolute
优游自得	you	de	free and at leisure (idiom); unfettered
优生学	you	xue	eugenics
优等生	you	sheng	top student; outstanding student; standout performer
优绩主义	you	yi	meritocracy
优缺点	you	dian	advantages and disadvantages; pros and cons; merits and shortcomings
优胜劣汰	you	tai	(idiom) survival of the fittest
优胜劣败	you	bai	see 優勝劣汰|优胜劣汰[you1 sheng4 lie4 tai4]
优衣库	you	ku	Uniqlo, Japanese clothing brand
优诺牌	you	pai	Uno (card game)
优酪乳	you	ru	yogurt (loanword) (Tw)
伙食费	huo	fei	food expenses; board expenses; meals (cost)
会不会	hui	hui	(posing a question: whether sb, something) can or cannot?; is able to or not
会东县	hui	xian	Huidong, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
会厌炎	hui	yan	epiglottitis
会合处	hui	chu	joint
会同县	hui	xian	Huitong, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
会员国	hui	guo	member nation
会哭的孩子有奶吃	hui	chi	lit. a child who cries gets to feed at the breast (idiom); fig. the squeaky wheel gets the grease
会哭的孩子有糖吃	hui	chi	lit. the child who cries gets the candy (idiom); fig. the squeaky wheel gets the grease
会奖旅游	hui	you	MICE tourism (acronym for "meetings, incentives, conventions and exhibitions"), aka "meetings industry" or "events industry"
会宁县	hui	xian	Huining, a county in Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
会客厅	hui	ting	reception room; parlor
会客室	hui	shi	parlor
会意字	hui	zi	combined ideogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters); Chinese character that combines the meanings of existing elements; also known as joint ideogram or associative compound
会昌县	hui	xian	Huichang, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
会泽县	hui	xian	Huize, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
会理市	hui	shi	Huili, a county-level city in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
会计准则理事会	kuai	hui	accounting standards council
会计制度	kuai	du	accounting system
会计学	kuai	xue	accounting; accountancy
会计师	kuai	shi	accountant
会计科目	kuai	mu	account
会议厅	hui	ting	conference hall
会议室	hui	shi	meeting room; conference room
会议展览	hui	lan	conferences and exhibitions
会错意	hui	yi	to misunderstand; to get the wrong idea
会长团	hui	tuan	presidency (Mormon Church)
会阴穴	hui	xue	(TCM) acupuncture point CV-1, located on the perineum
伞形科	san	ke	Umbelliferae or Apiaceae, plant family containing carrot, coriander etc
伟士牌	wei	pai	Vespa (scooter)
伟晶岩	wei	yan	pegmatite
传三过四	chuan	si	to spread rumors; to gossip
传书鸽	chuan	ge	carrier pigeon (used for mail)
传令兵	chuan	bing	(military) messenger; orderly
传入神经	chuan	jing	afferent nerve (transmitting in to the brain); afferent neuron
传出神经	chuan	jing	efferent nerve (transmitting out from the brain); efferent neuron; motor nerve
传动器	chuan	qi	drive (engine)
传动带	chuan	dai	transmission belt
传动机构	chuan	gou	transmission mechanism
传动比	chuan	bi	transmission ratio; gear ratio
传动系统	chuan	tong	transmission system; power drive
传动装置	chuan	zhi	(automobile) transmission
传动轴	chuan	zhou	drive shaft
传呼机	chuan	ji	pager; beeper
传呼电话	chuan	hua	neighborhood telephone, with sb in charge of notifying others when they receive a call
传声器	chuan	qi	microphone
传声筒	chuan	tong	loudhailer; megaphone; one who parrots sb
传奇人物	chuan	wu	legendary person; legend (i.e. person)
传宗接代	chuan	dai	to carry on one's ancestral line
传家宝	chuan	bao	family heirloom
传帮带	chuan	dai	to pass on experience (to the next generation)
传心术	chuan	shu	telepathy
传感器	chuan	qi	sensor; transducer
传教团	chuan	tuan	a mission (group of missionaries)
传教士	chuan	shi	missionary
传染性	chuan	xing	infectious; contagious; infectiousness; transmissibility
传染源	chuan	yuan	source of an infection
传染病	chuan	bing	infectious disease; contagious disease; communicable disease
传染病学	chuan	xue	epidemiology
传热学	zhuan	xue	theory of heat; heat transmission (physics)
传真机	chuan	ji	fax machine
传真电报	chuan	bao	phototelegram
传统医药	chuan	yao	Chinese traditional medicine
传话人	chuan	ren	messenger; communicator; relay
传输媒体	chuan	ti	transmission medium
传输媒质	chuan	zhi	transmission medium
传输层	chuan	ceng	transport layer
传输控制	chuan	zhi	transmission control
传输控制协定	chuan	ding	transmission control protocol; TCP
传输服务	chuan	wu	transport service
传输模式	chuan	shi	transfer mode; transmission method
传输率	chuan	lv	transmission rate
传输线	chuan	xian	transmission line
传输设备	chuan	bei	transmission facility; transmission equipment
传输距离	chuan	li	transmission distance
传输通道	chuan	dao	transport channel
传输速率	chuan	lv	(computing) transmission rate; transmission speed
传达员	chuan	yuan	usher; receptionist
传达室	chuan	shi	reception office; janitor's office
传送带	chuan	dai	conveyor belt; transmission belt
传送服务	chuan	wu	delivery service
传递者	chuan	zhe	messenger; transmitter (of information)
传道书	chuan	shu	Ecclesiastes (biblical book of sermons)
传道者	chuan	zhe	missionary; preacher
传道部	chuan	bu	mission
传闻证据	chuan	ju	hearsay (law)
伤不起	shang	qi	(slang) it's just the pits!; so unfair!; unbearable
伤停补时	shang	shi	(sports) injury time
伤及无辜	shang	gu	to harm the innocent (idiom)
伤和气	shang	qi	to damage a good relationship; to hurt sb's feelings
伤天害理	shang	li	to offend Heaven and reason (idiom); bloody atrocities that cry to heaven; outrageous acts
伤寒沙门氏菌	shang	jun	salmonella typhimurium
伤寒症	shang	zheng	typhoid
伤弓之鸟	shang	niao	see 驚弓之鳥|惊弓之鸟[jing1 gong1 zhi1 niao3]
伤心惨目	shang	mu	(idiom) too appalling to look at
伤心欲绝	shang	jue	(idiom) to be overcome with grief
伤心致死	shang	si	to grieve to death; to die of a broken-heart
伤心蒿目	shang	mu	to grieve; broken-hearted
伤残人员	shang	yuan	the injured; wounded personnel
伤毫毛	shang	mao	see 動毫毛|动毫毛[dong4 hao2 mao2]
伤病员	shang	yuan	the sick and the wounded
伤痕累累	shang	lei	cuts and bruises all over the body
伤筋动骨	shang	gu	to suffer serious injury (idiom)
伤筋断骨	shang	gu	to suffer serious injury (idiom)
伤脑筋	shang	jin	to be a real headache; to find sth a real headache; to beat one's brains
伤风败俗	shang	su	offending public morals (idiom)
伦敦大学亚非学院	lun	yuan	London University School of Oriental and African Studies (SOAS)
伦敦大学学院	lun	yuan	University College, London
伦敦证券交易所	lun	suo	London Stock Exchange (LSE)
伦理学	lun	xue	ethics
伦理观	lun	guan	one's perspective on what constitutes ethical behavior
伦琴射线	lun	xian	X-ray; Röntgen or Roentgen ray
伪代码	wei	ma	pseudocode
伪君子	wei	zi	hypocrite
伪命题	wei	ti	false proposition; fundamentally flawed notion; (in popular usage, can also refer to anything based on a flawed notion, such as a false dichotomy or a question that starts with a false premise)
伪善者	wei	zhe	hypocrite
伪基百科	wei	ke	Uncyclopedia (satirical website parodying Wikipedia)
伪科学	wei	xue	pseudoscience
伪纪录片	wei	pian	mockumentary
伪造品	wei	pin	counterfeit object; forgery; fake
伪造者	wei	zhe	forger
伪阳性	wei	xing	false positive
伪阴性	wei	xing	false negative
伯仲之间	bo	jian	almost on a par
伯仲叔季	bo	ji	(idiom) eldest, second, third and youngest of brothers; order of seniority among brothers
伯克利	bo	li	Berkeley
伯利兹	bo	zi	Belize
伯利恒	bo	heng	Bethlehem
伯劳鸟	bo	niao	shrike (family Laniidae)
伯南克	bo	ke	Ben Bernanke (1953–), US economist and chair of the Federal Reserve 2006–2014
伯叔祖母	bo	mu	father's father's brother's wife; great aunt
伯叔祖父	bo	fu	father's father's brother; great uncle
伯多禄	bo	lu	Peter (Catholic transliteration)
伯尔尼	bo	ni	Bern, capital of Switzerland
伯恩斯	bo	si	(surname) Burns; Nicholas Burns (1956–), US ambassador to China 2022–2025
伯恩茅斯	bo	si	Bournemouth, town in southern England
伯明翰	bo	han	Birmingham
伯特兰	bo	lan	(name) Bertrand
伯特兰德	bo	de	(name) Bertrand
伯纳姆	bo	mu	(name) Burnham
伯罗奔尼撒	bo	sa	Peloponnese, peninsula in southern Greece
伯赛大	bo	da	Bethsaida, settlement mentioned in the New Testament near the Sea of Galilee
伯邑考	bo	kao	Bo Yikao, eldest son of King Wen of Zhou 周文王[Zhou1 Wen2 wang2] and elder brother of King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2]
伯里克利	bo	li	Pericles (c. 495–429 BC), Athenian statesman and general during the Peloponnesian War
估堆儿	gu	r	to assess an entire lot
伴侣号	ban	hao	HMS Consort, a Royal Navy destroyer involved in the 1949 Amethyst Incident on the Yangtze River
伴君如伴虎	ban	hu	being close to the sovereign can be as perilous as lying with a tiger (idiom)
伴手礼	ban	li	(Tw) gift given when visiting sb (esp. a local specialty brought back from one's travels, or a special product of one's own country taken overseas)
伴生气	ban	qi	associated gas (petrochemical engineering)
伴随矩阵	ban	zhen	(math.) adjugate matrix; classical adjoint matrix
伶牙俐齿	ling	chi	clever and eloquent (idiom); fluent; having the gift of the gab
伶盗龙	ling	long	velociraptor (dinosaur)
伸卡球	shen	qiu	(baseball) (loanword) sinker
伸展台	shen	tai	runway (for a fashion show etc); catwalk
伸懒腰	shen	yao	to stretch oneself (on waking or when tired etc)
伸手不见五指	shen	zhi	pitch-dark (idiom)
伸手派	shen	pai	freeloader; moocher; sponger
伸手牌	shen	pai	freeloader; moocher; sponger
伸缩喇叭	shen	ba	trombone
伸缩性	shen	xing	flexibility
伺服器	si	qi	server (computer) (Tw)
伺服电机	si	ji	servomotor
似懂非懂	si	dong	to not really understand; to half-understand
似是而非	si	fei	apparently right but actually wrong; specious (idiom)
似曾相识	si	shi	déjà vu (the experience of seeing exactly the same situation a second time); seemingly familiar; apparently already acquainted
似水年华	si	hua	fleeting years (idiom)
似笑非笑	si	xiao	like a smile yet not a smile (idiom)
伽倻琴	jia	qin	gayageum (Korean 12-stringed zither)
伽利略	jia	lve	Galileo Galilei (1564-1642), Italian scientist
伽利略号	jia	hao	Galileo, American robotic spacecraft launched to Jupiter in 1989, orbiting the planet 1995-2003
伽师县	jia	xian	Payzawat, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
伽罗华	jia	hua	Évariste Galois (1811–1832), French mathematician
伽罗华理论	jia	lun	Galois theory (math.)
伽罗瓦	jia	wa	Évariste Galois (1811–1832), French mathematician
伽罗瓦理论	jia	lun	(math.) Galois theory
伽马射线	ga	xian	gamma ray
但以理书	dan	shu	Book of Daniel
但尼生	dan	sheng	Tennyson (name); Alfred Tennyson, 1st Baron Tennyson (1809-1892), English poet
但愿如此	dan	ci	if only it were so; I hope so (idiom)
但说无妨	dan	fang	there is no harm in saying what one thinks (idiom)
佉卢文	qu	wen	Kharosthi (ancient language of central Asia)
位元币	wei	bi	Bitcoin
位元组	wei	zu	(Tw) byte (computing)
位形空间	wei	jian	configuration space (math.)
位极人臣	wei	chen	to have reached the highest official positions
位置效应	wei	ying	position effect
低三下四	di	si	servile
低低切切	di	qie	in a low voice; whispered
低体温症	di	zheng	hypothermia
低俗之风	di	feng	vulgar style (used of items to be censored)
低俗化	di	hua	vulgarization
低保真	di	zhen	low fidelity; lo-fi
低八度	di	du	an octave lower (music)
低利贷款	di	kuan	low interest loan
低剂量照射	di	she	low dose irradiation
低压带	di	dai	low-pressure zone; depression (meteorology)
低地绣眼鸟	di	niao	(bird species of China) lowland white-eye (Zosterops meyeni)
低地轨道	di	dao	see 近地軌道|近地轨道[jin4 di4 gui3 dao4]
低声细语	di	yu	in a whisper; in a low voice (idiom)
低头不见抬头见	di	jian	see 抬頭不見低頭見|抬头不见低头见[tai2 tou2 bu4 jian4 di1 tou2 jian4]
低头族	di	zu	smartphone addicts
低头认罪	di	zui	to bow one's head in acknowledgment of guilt; to admit one's guilt
低平火山口	di	kou	maar
低年级	di	ji	a lower grade (in a school) (e.g. 1st or 2nd year); the lower division (of a school etc)
低开高走	di	zou	(finance) (of the price of a security etc) to open lower than the previous closing price but rise throughout the trading session
低成本	di	ben	low cost; inexpensive
低收入	di	ru	low income
低放射性废物	di	wu	low-level waste
低气压	di	ya	low pressure; depression (meteorology)
低浓缩铀	di	you	low-enriched uranium (LEU)
低消费	di	fei	low level of spending; small expenditure
低眉顺眼	di	yan	docile; submissive
低空跳伞	di	san	BASE Jumping
低空飞过	di	guo	to just scrape through with a narrow pass (in an exam)
低端人口	di	kou	low-paid workers in industries that offer jobs for the unskilled; derogatory-sounding abbr. for 低端產業從業人口|低端产业从业人口
低等动物	di	wu	lower animal; primitive animal
低筋面粉	di	fen	low-gluten flour; cake flour; pastry flour
低级语言	di	yan	low-level (computer) language
低聚物	di	wu	oligomer (chemistry)
低能儿	di	er	retarded child; moron; idiot
低血压	di	ya	low blood pressure
低血糖	di	tang	hypoglycemia (medicine)
低速区	di	qu	low-velocity zone (seismology)
低速挡	di	dang	low gear; bottom gear
低速率	di	lv	low speed
低阶语言	di	yan	low-level (computer) language
低音喇叭	di	ba	woofer
低音大号	di	hao	tuba
低音大提琴	di	qin	double bass; contrabass
低音提琴	di	qin	double bass; contrabass
低音炮	di	pao	subwoofer
低音管	di	guan	bassoon
低领口	di	kou	low-cut neckline
低首下心	di	xin	to be fawningly submissive (idiom)
低龄化	di	hua	(of a certain group of people, e.g. recreational drug users) to become younger, on average, than before
低龄犯罪	di	zui	juvenile crime; juvenile delinquency
住宅区	zhu	qu	residential area; housing development
住宅楼	zhu	lou	residential building; CL:幢[zhuang4],座[zuo4],棟|栋[dong4]
住宅泡沫	zhu	mo	housing bubble
住建部	zhu	bu	PRC Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD) (abbr. for 住房和城鄉建設部|住房和城乡建设部[Zhu4 fang2 he2 Cheng2 Xiang1 Jian4 she4 bu4])
住房和城乡建设部	zhu	bu	PRC Ministry of Housing and Urban-Rural Development (MOHURD)
住棚节	zhu	jie	Sukkot or Succoth, Jewish holiday
住海边	zhu	bian	(fig.) (slang) to stick one's nose in other people's affairs (i.e. the scope of other people's business that one concerns oneself with is as wide as an ocean vista)
住院医师	zhu	shi	resident physician
住院部	zhu	bu	inpatient department
佐世保	zuo	bao	Sasebo (city and naval port in Nagasaki, Japan)
佐丹奴	zuo	nu	Giordano (brand)
佐佐木	zuo	mu	Sasaki (Japanese surname)
佐治亚	zuo	ya	Georgia, US state
佐科威	zuo	wei	Joko Widodo (1961-), Indonesian politician, president of Indonesia (2014-)
体力劳动	ti	dong	physical labor
体力活	ti	huo	physical labor
体外受精	ti	jing	in vitro fertilization
体大思精	ti	jing	extensive and penetrating (idiom); expansive and profound (of writing)
体己话	ti	hua	intimate or heartfelt words; heart-to-heart talk
体己钱	ti	qian	private saved money of close family members
体弱多病	ti	bing	prone to illness; sickly; in fragile health
体恤入微	ti	wei	to emphasize down to last detail (idiom); to show every possible consideration; meticulous care
体恤衫	ti	shan	T-shirt; CL:件[jian4]
体感温度	ti	du	apparent temperature (meteorology)
体操运动员	ti	yuan	gymnast
体操队	ti	dui	gymnastics team
体无完肤	ti	fu	lit. cuts and bruises all over (idiom); fig. totally refuted
体格检查	ti	cha	physical examination; clinical examination; health checkup
体温检测仪	ti	yi	infrared body thermometer; temperature gun
体温表	ti	biao	clinical thermometer
体温计	ti	ji	clinical thermometer
体积单位	ti	wei	unit of volume
体细胞	ti	bao	somatic cell
体育场	ti	chang	stadium; CL:個|个[ge4],座[zuo4]
体育场馆	ti	guan	gymnasium
体育比赛	ti	sai	sporting competition
体育活动	ti	dong	sports; sporting activity
体育渣	ti	zha	unathletic person
体育生	ti	sheng	student who engages in regular training for a sport; student who takes physical education as a subject
体育界	ti	jie	sports circles; the sporting world
体育系	ti	xi	Physical Education department
体育达标测验	ti	yan	physical fitness test (for school students etc)
体育运动	ti	dong	sports; athletic activities
体育锻炼	ti	lian	physical exercise
体育项目	ti	mu	sporting event
体育馆	ti	guan	gym; gymnasium; stadium
体贴入微	ti	wei	to show every possible consideration (idiom); meticulous care
体适能	ti	neng	physical fitness
体重器	ti	qi	scale for measuring body weight; bathroom scale
体重秤	ti	cheng	scale for measuring body weight; bathroom scale
体重计	ti	ji	scale for measuring body weight; bathroom scale
体香剂	ti	ji	(personal) deodorant
体鸣乐器	ti	qi	idiophone
何不食肉糜	he	mi	(lit.) "Why don't they eat meat porridge?" (said by Emperor Hui of Jin 晉惠帝|晋惠帝[Jin4 Hui4 di4] when told that his people lacked rice) (saying); (fig.) to be oblivious to the suffering of ordinary people
何乐不为	he	wei	(idiom) what is there against it? (rhetorical question indicating an eagerness or willingness to do sth)
何乐而不为	he	wei	what is there against it? (rhetorical question indicating an eagerness or willingness to do sth)
何以见得	he	de	how can one be sure?
何出此言	he	yan	where do these words stem from?; why do you (he, etc) say such a thing?
何厚铧	he	hua	He Houhua (1955-), Macau financier and politician, Chief Executive 1999-2009
何去何从	he	cong	what course to follow; what path to take
何应钦	he	qin	He Yingqin (1890-1987), senior Guomindang general
何方神圣	he	sheng	who's this big shot?
何西阿书	he	shu	Book of Hosea
何许人	he	ren	(literary) what kind of person
何首乌	he	wu	Chinese knotweed (Polygonum multiflorum); fleeceflower root
余勇可贾	yu	gu	lit. spare valor for sale (idiom); fig. after former successes, still ready for more work; not resting on one's laurels
余响绕梁	yu	liang	reverberates around the rafters (idiom); fig. sonorous and resounding (esp. of singing voice)
余姚市	yu	shi	Yuyao, a county-level city in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
余干县	yu	xian	Yugan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
余庆县	yu	xian	Yuqing, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
余怒未息	yu	xi	to be still angry
余数定理	yu	li	the Remainder Theorem
余杭区	yu	qu	Yuhang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
余江区	yu	qu	Yujiang, a district of Yingtan City 鷹潭市|鹰潭市[Ying1 tan2 Shi4], Jiangxi
余甘子	yu	zi	Indian gooseberry (Phyllanthus emblica)
余音绕梁	yu	liang	reverberates around the rafters (idiom); fig. sonorous and resounding (esp. of singing voice)
佛兰德	fo	de	of or relating to Flemish people, language or culture
佛兰芒语	fo	yu	Flemish (language)
佛冈县	fo	xian	Fogang, a county in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
佛卡夏	fo	xia	(loanword) focaccia
佛口蛇心	fo	xin	words of a Buddha, heart of a snake (idiom); two-faced; malicious and duplicitous
佛吉尼亚	fu	ya	Virginia, US state
佛坪县	fo	xian	Foping, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
佛山市	fo	shi	Foshan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
佛得角	fo	jiao	Cape Verde
佛手柑	fo	gan	Buddha's hand; fingered citron (Citrus medica var. sarcodactylis)
佛手瓜	fo	gua	chayote (Sechium edule); choko; mirliton
佛教徒	fo	tu	Buddhist
佛教语	fo	yu	Buddhist term
佛朗哥	fo	ge	Franco (name); Generalissimo Francisco Franco Bahamonde (1892-1975), Spanish dictator and head of state 1939-1975
佛朗明哥	fo	ge	(Tw) (loanword) flamenco
佛朗机	fo	ji	Portuguese (Ming era loanword)
佛朗机炮	fo	pao	Western (or Western-style) cannon of the Ming era
佛朗机铳	fo	chong	Western (and so styled) cannon of the Ming era
佛法僧目	fo	mu	Coraciiformes, class of birds including kingfishers and hornbills
佛洛伊德	fo	de	Floyd (name); Freud (name); Dr Sigmund Freud (1856-1939), the founder of psychoanalysis
佛洛斯特	fu	te	(surname) Frost
佛罗伦斯	fo	si	(Tw) Florence, Italy
佛罗伦萨	fo	sa	Florence, Italy
佛罗里达	fo	da	Florida
佛罗里达州	fo	zhou	Florida
佛舍利	fo	li	ashes of cremated Buddha
佛蒙特	fo	te	Vermont, US state
佛诞日	fo	ri	Buddha's Birthday (8th day of the 4th Lunar month)
佛跳墙	fo	qiang	lit. Buddha jumps over the wall, name for a Chinese dish that uses many non-vegetarian ingredients
佛雷泽尔	fu	er	Frazer (name)
佛香阁	fo	ge	Tower of Buddhist Incense in the Summer Palace 頤和園|颐和园[Yi2 he2 yuan2], Beijing
佛骨塔	fo	ta	stupa (Buddhist shrine)
作业员	zuo	yuan	operator (of a machine etc); factory worker
作业环境	zuo	jing	operating environment
作业系统	zuo	tong	operating system (Tw)
作奸犯科	zuo	ke	to flout the law
作好准备	zuo	bei	to prepare; to make adequate preparation
作威作福	zuo	fu	tyrannical abuse (idiom); riding roughshod over people
作息时间	zuo	jian	daily schedule; daily routine
作息时间表	zuo	biao	daily schedule; work schedule
作曲家	zuo	jia	composer; songwriter
作曲者	zuo	zhe	composer; song writer
作用力	zuo	li	(physics) action force
作用域	zuo	yu	(computing) scope
作用域链	zuo	lian	(computing) scope chain
作笔记	zuo	ji	to take notes
作者不详	zuo	xiang	author unknown
作者未详	zuo	xiang	author unspecified
作者权	zuo	quan	copyright
作茧自缚	zuo	fu	to spin a cocoon around oneself (idiom); enmeshed in a trap of one's own devising; hoist by his own petard
作证能力	zuo	li	competence
作风正派	zuo	pai	to be honest and upright; to have moral integrity
作鸟兽散	zuo	san	lit. scatter like birds and beasts (idiom); fig. to head off in various directions; to flee helter-skelter
佝偻病	gou	bing	(medicine) rickets
佟佳江	tong	jiang	Tongjia River in Manchuria, a tributary of the Yalu River 鴨綠江|鸭绿江[Ya1 lu4 Jiang1]
你个头	ni	tou	(coll.) my ass!; yeah, right! (used to mock a claim sb just made, as in 專家你個頭|专家你个头[zhuan1 jia1 ni3 ge5 tou2] "expert", my ass!)
你争我夺	ni	duo	lit. you fight, I snatch (idiom); to compete fiercely offering no quarter; fierce rivalry; tug-of-war
你情我愿	ni	yuan	to both be willing; mutual consent
你死我活	ni	huo	lit. you die, I live (idiom); irreconcilable adversaries; two parties cannot coexist
你看着办吧	ni	ba	You figure it out for yourself.; Do as you please.
你真行	ni	xing	you're incredible (often an ironic expression of vexation, but can also express approbation)
你追我赶	ni	gan	friendly one-upmanship; to try to emulate
佧佤族	ka	zu	Wa, Kawa or Va ethnic group of Myanmar, south China and southeast Asia
佩洛西	pei	xi	Nancy Pelosi (1940–), US Democratic politician, Speaker of the House of Representatives 2007–2011 and 2019–2023
佩皮尼昂	pei	ang	Perpignan (city in France)
佩鲁贾	pei	jia	Perugia (city in Italy)
佳世客	jia	ke	JUSCO, Japanese chain of hypermarkets
佳丽酿	jia	niang	Carignan (grape type)
佳人才子	jia	zi	(lit.) beautiful lady, gifted scholar (idiom); (fig.) pair of ideal lovers
佳利酿	jia	niang	Carignan (grape type)
佳得乐	jia	le	Gatorade (brand)
佳木斯	jia	si	see 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4]
佳木斯大学	jia	xue	Jiamusi University (Heilongjiang)
佳木斯市	jia	shi	Jiamusi, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
佳洁士	jia	shi	Crest (brand)
佳评如潮	jia	chao	a hit; tremendous popularity
佼佼者	jiao	zhe	one of the best; a standout
使不得	shi	de	cannot be used; must not (do sth); unacceptable
使人信服	shi	fu	convincing
使劲儿	shi	r	erhua variant of 使勁|使劲[shi3 jin4]
使徒行传	shi	zhuan	Acts of the Apostles (New Testament)
使性子	shi	zi	to lose one's temper
使用价值	shi	zhi	usable value
使用权	shi	quan	usage rights
使用条款	shi	kuan	terms of use
使用者	shi	zhe	(Tw) user
使用量	shi	liang	volume of use; usage amount
使眼色	shi	se	to give sb a meaningful look
使节团	shi	tuan	a diplomatic group; a delegation
使领官员	shi	yuan	ambassador and consul; diplomat
使领馆	shi	guan	embassy and consulate
侃侃而谈	kan	tan	to speak frankly with assurance
侃大山	kan	shan	to chatter idly; to gossip; to boast or brag
侄女婿	zhi	xu	brother's daughter's husband; niece's husband
侄媳妇	zhi	fu	brother's son's wife; nephew's wife
侄孙女	zhi	nv	grand niece
例外字	li	zi	exception(s)
例行公事	li	shi	routine business; usual practice; mere formality
侍从官	shi	guan	aide-de-camp
侍卫官	shi	guan	guard
侍应生	shi	sheng	waiter; waitress
侏儒仓鼠	zhu	shu	dwarf hamster
侏儒症	zhu	zheng	dwarfism
侏罗纪	zhu	ji	Jurassic (geological period 205-140m years ago)
侏蓝仙鹟	zhu	weng	(bird species of China) pygmy blue flycatcher (Muscicapella hodgsoni)
供不应求	gong	qiu	supply does not meet demand
供佛花	gong	hua	flower offering
供大于求	gong	qiu	supply exceeds demand
供应品	gong	pin	supplies
供应商	gong	shang	supplier
供应室	gong	shi	supply room; (esp. in a hospital) central supply room
供应者	gong	zhe	supplier
供应链	gong	lian	supply chain
供油系统	gong	tong	fuel supply system; lubricating system
供血者	gong	zhe	blood donor
供认不讳	gong	hui	to make a full confession; to plead guilty
供货商	gong	shang	supplier; vendor
供过于求	gong	qiu	supply exceeds demand
供销商	gong	shang	distribution business; supplier
依依不舍	yi	she	reluctant to part (idiom); broken-hearted at having to leave
依兰县	yi	xian	Yilan, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
依地酸二钴	yi	gu	kelocyanor
依安县	yi	xian	Yi'an, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
依山傍水	yi	shui	mountains on one side and water on the other
依我来看	yi	kan	as I see it; in my opinion
依我看	yi	kan	in my opinion
依撒依亚	yi	ya	Isaiah (Catholic transliteration)
依撒意亚	yi	ya	Isaiah
依撒格	yi	ge	Issac (name)
依样画葫芦	yi	lu	lit. to draw a gourd from the model (idiom); fig. to copy sth mechanically without attempt at originality
依法治国	yi	guo	to rule according to the law
依然如故	yi	gu	(idiom) back to where we were; absolutely no improvement; things haven't changed at all
依然故我	yi	wo	to be one's old self (idiom); to be unchanged; (derog.) to be stuck in one's ways
依葫芦画瓢	yi	piao	lit. to draw a dipper with a gourd as one's model (idiom); fig. to follow the existing pattern without modification
依计行事	yi	shi	to act according to plan
依赖注入	yi	ru	(software engineering) dependency injection
侠盗猎车手	xia	shou	Grand Theft Auto (video game series)
侠盗飞车	xia	che	Grand Theft Auto (video game series)
侥幸心理	jiao	li	trusting to luck; wishful thinking
侦察兵	zhen	bing	a scout; spy
侦察员	zhen	yuan	detective; investigator; scout
侦察性	zhen	xing	investigatory
侦察机	zhen	ji	surveillance aircraft; spy plane
侦毒器	zhen	qi	detection unit
侦毒管	zhen	guan	detector tube
侦测器	zhen	qi	detector
侧刀旁	ce	pang	name of the lateral "knife" radical 刂[dao1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 18), occurring in 到[dao4], 利[li4], 別|别[bie2] etc
侧手翻	ce	fan	(gymnastics) cartwheel; to do a cartwheel
侧生动物	ce	wu	parazoan (member of the subkingdom Parazoa)
侧空翻	ce	fan	aerial cartwheel; side somersault
侧边栏	ce	lan	(computing) sidebar
侧重点	ce	dian	main point; emphasis
侨务委员会	qiao	hui	Overseas Chinese Affairs Council, Taiwan
侯景之乱	hou	luan	rebellion against Liang of the Southern Dynasties 南朝梁 in 548
侯赛因	hou	yin	Husain or Hussein (name); Hussein (c. 626-680), Muslim leader whose martyrdom is commemorated at Ashura; Saddam Hussein al Tikriti (1937-2006), dictator of Iraq 1979-2003
侯门似海	hou	hai	(lit.) the gate of a noble house is like the sea (idiom); (fig.) there is a wide gap between the nobility and the common people
侯马市	hou	shi	Houma, a county-level city in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
侵入岩	qin	yan	intrusive rock
侵入性	qin	xing	invasive (e.g. disease or procedure)
侵入者	qin	zhe	intruder; invader
侵害人	qin	ren	perpetrator
侵权行为	qin	wei	tort; infringement (of sb's rights)
侵略军	qin	jun	invading army
侵略战争	qin	zheng	war of aggression
侵略者	qin	zhe	aggressors; invaders
侵蚀作用	qin	yong	erosion
便利商店	bian	dian	convenience store (Tw)
便利店	bian	dian	convenience store
便利性	bian	xing	convenience
便利贴	bian	tie	sticky note
便宜行事	bian	shi	act at one's discretion; act as one sees fit
便宜货	pian	huo	a bargain; cheap goods
便捷化	bian	hua	to facilitate; to streamline; to make convenient and fast
便携式	bian	shi	portable
便服店	bian	dian	(Tw) nightlife venue where hostesses wear their own casual clothes (as opposed to costumes or formalwear)
便条纸	bian	zhi	scrap paper
便步走	bian	zou	march at ease; route step
便民利民	bian	min	(policy jargon) to make life easier and better for the public
便衣警察	bian	cha	plain-clothed policeman
促狭鬼	cu	gui	mischievous fellow; rascal
促膝谈心	cu	xin	(idiom) to sit side-by-side and have a heart-to-heart talk
俄中朝	e	chao	Russia, China and North Korea
俄亥俄	e	e	Ohio
俄亥俄州	e	zhou	Ohio
俄克拉何马	e	ma	Oklahoma, US state
俄克拉何马城	e	cheng	Oklahoma City
俄克拉荷马	e	ma	variant of 俄克拉何馬|俄克拉何马[E2 ke4 la1 he2 ma3]
俄勒冈	e	gang	Oregon
俄勒冈州	e	zhou	Oregon
俄国人	e	ren	Russian (person)
俄塔社	e	she	Information Telegraph Agency of Russia (ITAR-TASS), Russian news agency
俄备得	e	de	Obed (son of Boaz and Ruth)
俄巴底亚书	e	shu	Book of Obadiah
俄狄浦斯	e	si	Oedipus, hero of the tragedy Oedipus Rex by Athenian dramatist Sophocles
俄狄浦斯情结	e	jie	Oedipus complex
俄狄浦斯期	e	qi	oedipal phase (psychology)
俄罗斯	e	si	Russia
俄罗斯人	e	ren	Russian (person)
俄罗斯帝国	e	guo	Russian empire (1546-1917)
俄罗斯方块	e	kuai	Tetris (video game)
俄罗斯族	e	zu	Russian ethnic minority in China
俄罗斯联邦	e	bang	Russian Federation, RSFSR
俄罗斯轮盘	e	pan	Russian roulette
俄联邦	e	bang	the Russian Federation
俏皮话	qiao	hua	witticism; wisecrack; sarcastic remark
俗不可耐	su	nai	intolerably vulgar
俗世奇人	su	ren	Extraordinary people in our ordinary world, short stories by novelist Feng Jicai 馮驥才|冯骥才[Feng2 Ji4 cai2]
俗体字	su	zi	nonstandard form of a Chinese character
俗话说	su	shuo	as the proverb says; as they say...
俗谚口碑	su	bei	common sayings (idiom); widely circulated proverbs
俗随时变	su	bian	customs change with time (idiom); other times, other manners; O Tempora, O Mores!
保不住	bao	zhu	cannot maintain (sth); unable to keep; more likely than not
保不定	bao	ding	more likely than not; quite possible; on the cards
保不齐	bao	qi	more likely than not; quite possible; on the cards
保丽龙	bao	long	styrofoam
保亭县	bao	xian	Baoting Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
保亭黎族苗族自治县	bao	xian	Baoting Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
保修期	bao	qi	guarantee period; warranty period
保健操	bao	cao	health exercises
保全员	bao	yuan	(Tw) security guard
保养品	bao	pin	(Tw) beauty product; skincare product
保利科技	bao	ji	Poly Technologies, Chinese defense company
保力龙	bao	long	polystyrene
保加利亚	bao	ya	Bulgaria
保卫祖国	bao	guo	to defend one's country
保外就医	bao	yi	to release for medical treatment (of a prisoner)
保守主义	bao	yi	conservatism
保守党	bao	dang	conservative political parties
保守派	bao	pai	conservative faction
保安人员	bao	yuan	security personnel; member of police force
保安团	bao	tuan	peace keeping group
保安族	bao	zu	Bonan ethnic group
保安部队	bao	dui	security forces
保定市	bao	shi	Baoding, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
保家卫国	bao	guo	guard home, defend the country (idiom); national defense
保密协议	bao	yi	non-disclosure agreement; confidentiality agreement
保密性	bao	xing	secrecy
保尔森	bao	sen	Paulson or Powellson (name); Henry (Hank) Paulson (1946-), US banker, US Treasury Secretary 2006-2009
保山市	bao	shi	Baoshan, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
保康县	bao	xian	Baokang, a county in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
保德县	bao	xian	Baode, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
保惠师	bao	shi	(Christianity) Paraclete
保护主义	bao	yi	protectionism
保护人	bao	ren	guardian; carer; patron
保护伞	bao	san	protective umbrella; fig. person affording protection (esp. corrupt)
保护剂	bao	ji	protective agent
保护区	bao	qu	conservation district; CL:個|个[ge4],片[pian4]
保护国	bao	guo	protectorate
保护性	bao	xing	protective
保护模式	bao	shi	protected mode
保护神	bao	shen	patron saint; guardian angel
保护者	bao	zhe	protector
保护色	bao	se	protective coloration; camouflage
保持器	bao	qi	(orthodontics) retainer
保时捷	bao	jie	Porsche (car company)
保暖内衣	bao	yi	thermal underwear
保残守缺	bao	que	conservative; to preserve the outmoded
保洁箱	bao	xiang	litter-bin
保温杯	bao	bei	thermal insulation cup (or bottle)
保温瓶	bao	ping	thermos
保特瓶	bao	ping	variant of 寶特瓶|宝特瓶[bao3 te4 ping2]
保留价	bao	jia	reserve price (in an auction); (economics) reservation price
保留剧目	bao	mu	repertory; repertoire; repertory item
保留区	bao	qu	reservation (for an ethnic minority)
保皇党	bao	dang	royalists
保监会	bao	hui	China Insurance Regulatory Commission (CIRC), abbr. for 中國保險監督管理委員會|中国保险监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Bao3 xian3 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
保真度	bao	du	fidelity
保税区	bao	qu	duty-free district; tariff-free zone; bonded area
保管员	bao	yuan	custodian; storeroom clerk
保管箱	bao	xiang	safe deposit box; safe
保育箱	bao	xiang	incubator (for newborns)
保育院	bao	yuan	orphanage; nursery
保角对应	bao	ying	(math.) distance-preserving correspondence; conformal map
保证人	bao	ren	guarantor; bailor
保证金	bao	jin	earnest money; cash deposit; bail
保质期	bao	qi	shelf life; expiration date
保长对应	bao	ying	(math.) distance-preserving correspondence; isometry
保险丝	bao	si	fuse wire; (electrical) fuse
保险人	bao	ren	insurer
保险单	bao	dan	insurance policy (document)
保险套	bao	tao	condom; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
保险杠	bao	gang	car bumper
保险柜	bao	gui	a safe; strongbox
保险灯	bao	deng	kerosene lamp
保险盒	bao	he	fuse box
保险箱	bao	xiang	safe deposit box; safe
保险费	bao	fei	insurance fee
保障监督	bao	du	safeguards
保靖县	bao	xian	Baojing, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
保驾护航	bao	hang	(idiom) to safeguard (sth); to protect (sth)
保鲜期	bao	qi	shelf life; freshness date
保鲜纸	bao	zhi	plastic wrap; cling wrap; cling film
保鲜膜	bao	mo	plastic wrap; preservative film; cling film
保龄球	bao	qiu	ten-pin bowling (loanword); bowling ball
俞天白	yu	bai	Yu Tianbai (1937-), novelist
俞文豹	yu	bao	Yu Wenbao (lived around 1240), prolific Song dynasty poet
俞正声	yu	sheng	Yu Zhengsheng (1945-), PRC politician
信不过	xin	guo	to distrust; to be suspicious
信丰县	xin	xian	Xinfeng, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
信义区	xin	qu	Xinyi or Hsinyi District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan; Hsinyi District of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 shi4], Taiwan
信以为真	xin	zhen	to take sth to be true
信仰者	xin	zhe	believer
信使核糖核酸	xin	suan	messenger RNA, mRNA
信口开合	xin	he	variant of 信口開河|信口开河[xin4 kou3 kai1 he2]
信口开河	xin	he	to speak without thinking (idiom); to blurt sth out
信口胡说	xin	shuo	to speak without thinking; to blurt sth out
信口雌黄	xin	huang	to speak off the cuff; to casually opine
信号台	xin	tai	signal station
信号处理	xin	li	signal processing
信号灯	xin	deng	signal light; car indicator
信噪比	xin	bi	signal-to-noise ratio
信天游	xin	you	a style of folk music of Shaanxi
信天翁	xin	weng	albatross (family Diomedeidae)
信宜市	xin	shi	Xinyi, a county-level city in Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
信州区	xin	qu	Xinzhou, a district of Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
信得过	xin	guo	trustworthy; reliable
信德省	xin	sheng	Sindh province of Pakistan
信心百倍	xin	bei	brimming with confidence (idiom)
信息与通讯技术	xin	shu	information and communication technology, ICT
信息化	xin	hua	informatization (the Information Age analog of industrialization)
信息图	xin	tu	infographic
信息图形	xin	xing	infographic
信息学	xin	xue	information science
信息差	xin	cha	information asymmetry; information gap (esp. a difference in access to information that can be exploited for profit)
信息技术	xin	shu	information technology; IT
信息时代	xin	dai	information age
信息灵通	xin	tong	see 消息靈通|消息灵通[xiao1 xi5 ling2 tong1]
信息管理	xin	li	information management
信息系统	xin	tong	information system
信息素	xin	su	pheromone
信息茧房	xin	fang	(Internet) echo chamber; filter bubble
信息论	xin	lun	information theory
信报财经新闻	xin	wen	Hong Kong Economic Journal
信用卡	xin	ka	credit card
信用危机	xin	ji	credit crisis
信用社	xin	she	credit union
信用等级	xin	ji	credit level
信用观察	xin	cha	credit watch
信用证	xin	zheng	letter of credit
信用证券	xin	quan	instrument of credit; letter of credit; see also 信用證|信用证[xin4 yong4 zheng4]
信用评等	xin	deng	credit rating
信用评级	xin	ji	credit rating
信用额	xin	e	credit limit
信用风险	xin	xian	credit risk
信神者	xin	zhe	a believer
信誓旦旦	xin	dan	to make a solemn vow
信访局	xin	ju	governmental ombudsman office, existing at the county-level and above
信贷危机	xin	ji	credit crisis
信贷衍生产品	xin	pin	credit derivative (in finance)
信贷违约掉期	xin	qi	credit default swap (finance)
信赖区间	xin	jian	(statistics) confidence interval
信都区	xin	qu	Xindu, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
信阳市	xin	shi	Xinyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
俩钱儿	lia	r	erhua variant of 倆錢|俩钱[lia3 qian2]
俭以养廉	jian	lian	(idiom) frugality makes honesty
修心养性	xiu	xing	to cultivate the heart and nurture the character (idiom); to improve oneself by meditation
修成正果	xiu	guo	to achieve Buddhahood through one's efforts and insight; to obtain a positive outcome after sustained efforts; to come to fruition
修指甲	xiu	jia	manicure
修改稿	xiu	gao	revised draft; new version (of a document)
修文县	xiu	xian	Xiuwen, a county in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
修昔底德	xiu	de	Thucydides (c. 455–c. 400 BC), Greek historian and author of History of the Peloponnesian War
修昔底德陷阱	xiu	jing	Thucydides Trap (theory that war may result when a rising power threatens to displace an established power)
修正主义	xiu	yi	revisionism
修正案	xiu	an	amendment; revised draft
修正液	xiu	ye	correction fluid
修武县	xiu	xian	Xiuwu, a county in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
修水利	xiu	li	to build or repair water conservancy infrastructure (e.g. canals, reservoirs etc)
修水县	xiu	xian	Xiushui, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
修理厂	xiu	chang	repair shop
修罗场	xiu	chang	(Indian mythology) battlefield where Asuras 修羅|修罗[xiu1 luo2] fought the gods; (fig.) a scene of cruelty and carnage; (slang) emotionally charged confrontation (esp. one involving a love triangle)
修脚师	xiu	shi	pedicurist
修行人	xiu	ren	person pursuing religious practice (Buddhism)
修补匠	xiu	jiang	tinker
修订历史	xiu	shi	revision history (of a document, web page etc)
修订本	xiu	ben	revised edition (of a book)
修订版	xiu	ban	revised edition; revised version
修辞学	xiu	xue	rhetoric
修辞格	xiu	ge	figure of speech
修造厂	xiu	chang	repair workshop (for machinery, vehicles etc)
修道会	xiu	hui	order (of monks)
修道士	xiu	shi	friar; frater
修道院	xiu	yuan	monastery; convent
修鞋匠	xiu	jiang	a cobbler
修饰话	xiu	hua	modifier (grammar)
修饰语	xiu	yu	(grammar) modifier; qualifier; adjunct
俯仰之间	fu	jian	in a flash
俯仰无愧	fu	kui	to have a clear conscience
俯卧撑	fu	cheng	push-up; press-up (exercise)
俯拾即是	fu	shi	see 俯拾皆是[fu3 shi2 jie1 shi4]
俯拾皆是	fu	shi	lit. so numerous that one could just bend down and pick them up (idiom); fig. extremely common; easily available
俯瞰图	fu	tu	bird's-eye view
俯瞰摄影	fu	ying	crane shot; boom shot (photography)
俯首帖耳	fu	er	bowed head and ears glued (idiom); docile and obedient; at sb's beck and call
俯首称臣	fu	chen	to bow before (idiom); to capitulate
俱乐部	ju	bu	(loanword) club (the organization or its premises)
俱舍宗	ju	zong	Kusha-shū (Japanese Buddhism school)
俾夜作昼	bi	zhou	lit. to make night as day (idiom); fig. to burn the midnight oil; work especially hard
俾斯麦	bi	mai	Bismarck (name); Otto von Bismarck (1815-1898), Prussian politician, Minister-President of Prussia 1862-1873, Chancellor of Germany 1871-1890
俾昼作夜	bi	ye	to make day as night (idiom, from Book of Songs); fig. to prolong one's pleasure regardless of the hour
俾格米	bi	mi	Pygmy
俾路支	bi	zhi	Balochi (ethnic group of Iran, Pakistan and Afghanistan)
俾路支省	bi	sheng	Balochistan (Pakistan)
倍儿棒	bei	bang	(dialect) awesome; excellent
倍增器	bei	qi	multiplier
倍足类	bei	lei	Diplopoda (arthropod class with a pair of legs on each segment, including centipedes and millipedes)
倍足纲	bei	gang	Diplopoda (zoology)
倍频器	bei	qi	frequency multiplier
倒买倒卖	dao	mai	to buy and sell at a profit; to speculate
倒反天纲	dao	gang	to violate the natural order; to defy social norms
倒反天罡	dao	gang	variant of 倒反天綱|倒反天纲[dao4 fan3 tian1 gang1]
倒吊蜡烛	dao	zhu	Wrightia tinctoria (flowering plant in Apocynaceae family, common names dyer's oleander or pala indigo)
倒吸一口凉气	dao	qi	to gasp (with amazement or shock etc); to feel a chill run down one's spine; to have one's hairs stand on end
倒座儿	dao	r	the north-facing room opposite the master's in a siheyuan 四合院[si4 he2 yuan4]
倒彩声	dao	sheng	jeering; booing; catcalls
倒悬之危	dao	wei	lit. the crisis of being hanged upside down (idiom); fig. extremely critical situation; dire straits
倒悬之急	dao	ji	lit. the crisis of being hanged upside down (idiom); fig. extremely critical situation; dire straits
倒悬之苦	dao	ku	lit. the pain of being hanged upside down (idiom); fig. extremely critical situation; dire straits
倒戈卸甲	dao	jia	to lay down arms
倒打一耙	dao	pa	lit. to strike with a muckrake (idiom), cf Pigsy 豬八戒|猪八戒 in Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记; fig. to counterattack; to make bogus accusations (against one's victim)
倒抽一口气	dao	qi	to gasp (in surprise, dismay, fright etc)
倒持太阿	dao	e	variant of 倒持泰阿[dao4 chi2 Tai4 e1]
倒持泰阿	dao	e	(lit.) to present the handle of a sword to another (idiom); (fig.) to relinquish power to another; to place oneself at another's mercy
倒插门	dao	men	(of the husband) to marry into and live with the wife's family (inverting traditional Chinese expectations)
倒时差	dao	cha	to adjust to a different time zone
倒春寒	dao	han	cold snap during the spring
倒果为因	dao	yin	to reverse cause and effect; to put the horse before the cart
倒栽葱	dao	cong	to fall headlong; (fig.) to suffer an ignominious failure
倒海翻江	dao	jiang	see 翻江倒海[fan1 jiang1 dao3 hai3]
倒立像	dao	xiang	inverted image; reversed image (e.g. upside down)
倒胃口	dao	kou	to spoil one's appetite; fig. to get fed up with sth
倒背如流	dao	liu	to know by heart (so well that you can recite it backwards)
倒背手	dao	shou	with one's hands behind one's back
倒背手儿	dao	r	erhua variant of 倒背手[dao4 bei4 shou3]
倒苦水	dao	shui	to pour out one's grievances
倒血霉	dao	mei	to have rotten luck (stronger version of 倒霉[dao3 mei2])
倒行逆施	dao	shi	to go against the tide (idiom); to do things all wrong; to try to turn back history; a perverse way of doing things
倒装句	dao	ju	(linguistics) inverted sentence
倒计时	dao	shi	to count down; countdown
倒车挡	dao	dang	reverse gear
倒过儿	dao	r	the wrong way round (back to front, inside out etc)
倒霉蛋	dao	dan	(coll.) poor devil; unfortunate man
倒霉蛋儿	dao	r	erhua variant of 倒霉蛋[dao3 mei2 dan4]
倘能如此	tang	ci	if this can be done
候机厅	hou	ting	airport lounge
候机楼	hou	lou	airport terminal
候补名单	hou	dan	waiting list
候诊室	hou	shi	waiting room (at clinic, hospital)
候车亭	hou	ting	bus shelter
候车室	hou	shi	waiting room (for train, bus etc)
候选人	hou	ren	candidate; CL:名[ming2]
候风地动仪	hou	yi	the world's first seismograph invented by Zhang Heng 張衡|张衡[Zhang1 Heng2] in 132
倚天屠龙记	yi	ji	Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber, wuxia (武俠|武侠[wu3 xia2], martial arts chivalry) novel by Jin Yong 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] and its screen adaptations
倚老卖老	yi	lao	(idiom) to flaunt one's seniority; to rely on one's age or length of experience to control or belittle others
借一步	jie	bu	could I have a word with you? (in private)
借东风	jie	feng	lit. to use the eastern wind (idiom); fig. to use sb's help
借书单	jie	dan	book slip
借书证	jie	zheng	library card
借债人	jie	ren	debtor; borrower
借入方	jie	fang	borrower; debit side (of a balance sheet)
借刀杀人	jie	ren	to lend sb a knife to kill sb; to get sb else to do one's dirty work; to attack using the strength of another (idiom)
借单儿	jie	r	receipt for a loan; written confirmation of a debt; IOU
借古喻今	jie	jin	to borrow the past as a model for the present
借古讽今	jie	jin	to use the past to disparage the present (idiom)
借字儿	jie	r	IOU; receipt for a loan
借尸还魂	jie	hun	lit. reincarnated in sb else's body (idiom); fig. a discarded or discredited idea returns in another guise
借方差额	jie	e	debit balance (accountancy)
借款人	jie	ren	the borrower
借腹生子	jie	zi	surrogate pregnancy
借花献佛	jie	fo	lit. presenting the Buddha with borrowed flowers (idiom); fig. to win favor or influence using sb else's property; plagiarism
借记卡	jie	ka	debit card
借词推搪	jie	tang	to make a lot of excuses
借译词	jie	ci	calque
借酒浇愁	jie	chou	(idiom) to drown one's sorrows
借题发挥	jie	hui	to use the current topic to put over one's own ideas; to use sth as a pretext to make a fuss
倡导者	chang	zhe	proponent; advocate; pioneer
倡言者	chang	zhe	proposer
倡议书	chang	shu	written proposal; document outlining an initiative
倪嗣冲	ni	chong	Ni Sichong (1868-1924), general closely linked to Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] during his unsuccessful 1915 bid for Empire
倪柝声	ni	sheng	Ni Tuosheng or Watchman Nee (1903-1972), influential Chinese Christian
倪桂珍	ni	zhen	Ni Guizhen or Ni Kwei-Tseng (1869 - 1931), mother of Song Ailing 宋藹齡|宋蔼龄[Song4 Ai3 ling2], Song Qingling 宋慶齡|宋庆龄[Song4 Qing4 ling2] and Song Meiling 宋美齡|宋美龄[Song4 Mei3 ling2]
倭马亚王朝	wo	chao	Umayyad Empire (661-750, in Iberia -1031), successor of the Rashidun caliphate
倭黑猩猩	wo	xing	bonobo; pygmy chimpanzee
债务人	zhai	ren	debtor
债务担保证券	zhai	quan	collateralized debt obligation (CDO), type of bond
债务证书	zhai	shu	debt instrument
债务证券	zhai	quan	debt security; bond security
债台高筑	zhai	zhu	lit. build a high desk of debt (idiom); heavily in debt
债多不愁	zhai	chou	(lit.) when up to one's ears in debt, one ceases to worry about it (idiom); (fig.) to be past worrying (about sth)
债权人	zhai	ren	creditor
债权国	zhai	guo	creditor country
值得一提	zhi	ti	to be worth mentioning
值日生	zhi	sheng	student on duty; prefect
倾吐胸臆	qing	yi	to pour out one's heart
倾吐衷肠	qing	chang	to pour out (emotions); to pour one's heart out; to say everything that is on one's mind
倾向于	qing	yu	to incline to; to prefer; to be prone to
倾向性	qing	xing	tendency; inclination; orientation
倾听者	qing	zhe	listener
倾囊相授	qing	shou	(idiom) to impart all one's knowledge or expertise
倾国倾城	qing	cheng	lit. capable of causing the downfall of a city or state (idiom); fig. (of a woman) devastatingly beautiful; also written 傾城傾國|倾城倾国[qing1 cheng2 qing1 guo2]
倾城倾国	qing	guo	see 傾國傾城|倾国倾城[qing1 guo2 qing1 cheng2]
倾家荡产	qing	chan	to lose a family fortune (idiom)
倾巢来犯	qing	fan	to turn out in force ready to attack (idiom)
倾巢而出	qing	chu	the whole nest came out (idiom); to turn out in full strength
倾心吐胆	qing	dan	to pour out one's heart (idiom)
倾斜度	qing	du	inclination (from the horizontal or vertical); slope; obliquity
倾盆大雨	qing	yu	(idiom) a downpour; rain bucketing down
倾箱倒箧	qing	qie	(idiom) to exhaust all one has; to leave no stone unturned; to try one's best
倾耳细听	qing	ting	to prick up one's ear and listen carefully
倾耳而听	qing	ting	to listen attentively
偃师区	yan	qu	Yanshi, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
偃旗息鼓	yan	gu	lit. lay down the flag and still the drums (idiom); fig. to cease; to give in
假一赔十	jia	shi	lit. if one is fake, I shall compensate you for ten of them; fig. (of goods) 100% genuine
假人像	jia	xiang	an effigy
假仁假义	jia	yi	hypocrisy; pretended righteousness
假借义	jia	yi	the meaning of a phonetic loan character 假借字[jia3 jie4 zi4] acquired from a similar-sounding word (e.g. 而[er2] originally meant "beard" but acquired the meaning "and")
假借字	jia	zi	loan character (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters); character acquiring meanings by phonetic association; also called phonetic loan
假公济私	jia	si	official authority used for private interests (idiom); to attain private ends by abusing public position
假冒伪劣	jia	lie	cheap quality counterfeit (goods); low-quality commodities
假冒品	jia	pin	counterfeit object; fake
假分数	jia	shu	improper fraction (with numerator ≥ denominator, e.g. seven fifths); see also: proper fraction 真分數|真分数[zhen1 fen1 shu4] and mixed number 帶分數|带分数[dai4 fen1 shu4]
假动作	jia	zuo	fake move or pass (sports); feint
假善人	jia	ren	false compassion; bogus charity
假嗓子	jia	zi	falsetto (in opera)
假大空	jia	kong	empty words; bogus speech
假小子	jia	zi	tomboy
假性近视	jia	shi	pseudomyopia
假想敌	jia	di	opposing force (in war games); hypothetical enemy (in strategic studies)
假惺惺	jia	xing	(of an expression of sympathy) insincere; phony
假慈悲	jia	bei	phony mercy; sham benevolence; crocodile tears
假戏真唱	jia	chang	fiction comes true; play-acting that turns into reality
假手于人	jia	ren	(idiom) to get one's own task done by sb else
假手他人	jia	ren	to get one's own task done by sb else
假报告	jia	gao	false report; forgery; fabricated declaration (e.g. income tax return)
假正经	jia	jing	demure; prudish; hypocritical
假洋鬼子	jia	zi	(derog.) wannabe foreigner, a Chinese person who apes the ways of foreigners
假种皮	jia	pi	(botany) aril
假肯定句	jia	ju	false affirmative
假芫茜	jia	qian	Eryngium foetidum
假设性	jia	xing	hypothetical
假设语气	jia	qi	subjunctive
假证件	jia	jian	false documents
假象牙	jia	ya	celluloid
假途灭虢	jia	guo	lit. a short-cut to crush Guo (idiom); fig. to connive with sb to damage a third party, then turn on the partner
假道伐虢	jia	guo	to obtain safe passage to conquer the State of Guo; to borrow the resources of an ally to attack a common enemy (idiom)
假阳性	jia	xing	false positive
假阴性	jia	xing	false negative
假面具	jia	ju	mask; fig. false façade; deceptive front
假面舞会	jia	hui	masked ball; masquerade
假高音	jia	yin	falsetto, same as 假聲|假声
偏三轮	pian	lun	old-style cycle with lateral third wheel and passenger seat
偏三轮摩托车	pian	che	motorbike with sidecar
偏光镜	pian	jing	polarizing filter
偏关县	pian	xian	Pianguan, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
偏利共栖	pian	qi	(biology) to have a commensal relationship with (another organism)
偏利共生	pian	sheng	(biology) to have a commensal relationship with (another organism)
偏听偏信	pian	xin	selective listening; to hear what one wants to hear
偏头痛	pian	tong	migraine
偏差距离	pian	li	offset distance
偏微分	pian	fen	(math.) partial differential; (math.) partial derivative
偏微分方程	pian	cheng	partial differential equation (PDE)
偏心率	pian	lv	(math.) eccentricity
偏心眼	pian	yan	bias; partiality; to be partial
偏心矩	pian	ju	axis of eccentricity
偏执型	pian	xing	paranoid (psych.)
偏执狂	pian	kuang	paranoia; monomania
偏振光	pian	guang	polarization of light; polarized light
偏振波	pian	bo	polarized wave
偏振镜	pian	jing	polarizing filter
偏极化	pian	hua	polarization; polarized
偏极镜	pian	jing	polarizing lens; polarizer
偏正式合成词	pian	ci	modified compound word
偏置电流	pian	liu	bias current (electronics)
偏置电阻	pian	zu	bias impedance (electronics)
偏航轴	pian	zhou	(aviation) yaw axis
偏转角	pian	jiao	angle of drift (navigation); deflection (from course); angle of divergence
偏邪不正	pian	zheng	biased; prejudiced (idiom)
做一天和尚撞一天钟	zuo	zhong	lit. as a monk for today, toll today's bell (idiom); fig. to do one's job mechanically; to hold a position passively
做不到	zuo	dao	impossible
做买卖	zuo	mai	to buy and sell; to do business; to trade
做人家	zuo	jia	thrifty; economical
做人情	zuo	qing	to do a favor to sb
做伴儿	zuo	r	erhua variant of 做伴[zuo4 ban4]
做准备工作	zuo	zuo	to make preparations
做功夫	zuo	fu	to practice (work skills)
做厅长	zuo	zhang	(jocular) to sleep on the couch; to sleep in the living room
做好做歹	zuo	dai	to persuade using all possible arguments (idiom); to act good cop and bad cop in turn
做学问	zuo	wen	to pursue scholarly study; to engage in academic research
做小抄	zuo	chao	to prepare a crib sheet; to crib; to cheat by copying
做工作	zuo	zuo	to do one's work; to work on sb; to try to persuade sb
做工夫	zuo	fu	to practice (work skills)
做市商	zuo	shang	market maker
做张做势	zuo	shi	to put on an act (idiom); to pose; to show theatrical affectation; to indulge in histrionics
做张做智	zuo	zhi	to put on an act (idiom); to pose; to show theatrical affectation; to indulge in histrionics
做张做致	zuo	zhi	see 做張做智|做张做智[zuo4 zhang1 zuo4 zhi4]
做手脚	zuo	jiao	to manipulate dishonestly; to tamper with sth
做文章	zuo	zhang	to make an issue of sth; to fuss; to make a song and dance
做活儿	zuo	r	erhua variant of 做活[zuo4 huo2]
做满月	zuo	yue	to celebrate a baby's one-month milestone (often with a banquet or gathering of family and friends)
做牛做马	zuo	ma	lit. to work like an ox, to work like a horse; fig. to work extremely hard
做生意	zuo	yi	to do business
做生日	zuo	ri	to celebrate a birthday
做生活	zuo	huo	to work; to do manual labor
做眉做眼	zuo	yan	to frown
做眼色	zuo	se	to give sb a meaningful look
做礼拜	zuo	bai	to worship; to pray (esp. in a regular religious gathering at a church or mosque)
做祷告	zuo	gao	to pray
做自己	zuo	ji	to be oneself
做贼心虚	zuo	xu	to feel guilty as a thief (idiom); to have sth on one's conscience
做针线	zuo	xian	to do needlework
做鬼脸	zuo	lian	to pull a face; to grimace; to scowl
停下来	ting	lai	to stop
停尸房	ting	fang	mortuary
停尸间	ting	jian	morgue
停战日	ting	ri	Armistice Day
停损单	ting	dan	stop-loss order (finance)
停损点	ting	dian	see 止損點|止损点[zhi3 sun3 dian3]
停机坪	ting	ping	aircraft parking ground; apron; tarmac (at airport)
停机时间	ting	jian	downtime (computer network, power plant etc)
停滞不前	ting	qian	stuck and not moving forward (idiom); stagnant; in a rut; at a standstill
停火线	ting	xian	cease-fire line
停薪留职	ting	zhi	leave of absence without pay
停车位	ting	wei	parking space; parking spot
停车场	ting	chang	parking lot; car park
停车库	ting	ku	car park
停车格	ting	ge	parking bay
停车站	ting	zhan	bus stop
停车计时器	ting	qi	parking meter
停靠港	ting	gang	port of call
停靠站	ting	zhan	bus or tram stop; intermediate stop (on route of ship, plane etc); port of call
健康保险	jian	xian	health insurance
健康受损	jian	sun	health damage
健康检查	jian	cha	see 體格檢查|体格检查[ti3 ge2 jian3 cha2]
健康状况	jian	kuang	health status
健康食品	jian	pin	health food
健忘症	jian	zheng	amnesia
健怡可乐	jian	le	Diet Coke; Coca-Cola Light
健慰器	jian	qi	sex toy
健步如飞	jian	fei	running as fast as flying
健美操	jian	cao	aerobics; aerobic dance (school P.E. activity)
健美运动	jian	dong	body-building
健身室	jian	shi	gym
健身房	jian	fang	gym; fitness club
健身馆	jian	guan	gym (health center)
偶一为之	ou	zhi	to do sth once in a while (idiom); to do sth more as an exception than the rule
偶买嘎	ou	ga	(loanword) oh my God!
偶像剧	ou	ju	idol drama; drama series in which the actors are chosen for their preexisting popularity with young viewers
偶像包袱	ou	fu	burden of having to maintain one's image as a pop idol
偶函数	ou	shu	even function (math.)
偶然事件	ou	jian	random accident; chance event
偶然性	ou	xing	chance; fortuity; serendipity
偶联反应	ou	ying	chain reaction (chemistry)
偶语弃市	ou	shi	chance remarks can lead to public execution (idiom)
偶蹄目	ou	mu	Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates, such as pigs, cows, giraffes etc)
偶蹄类	ou	lei	Artiodactyla (even-toed ungulates, such as pigs, cows, giraffes etc)
偷偷摸摸	tou	mo	(idiom) surreptitious; sneaky
偷天换日	tou	ri	to engage in fraudulent activities (idiom); skulduggery; to hoodwink people
偷工减料	tou	liao	to skimp on the job and stint on materials (idiom); jerry-building; sloppy work
偷梁换柱	tou	zhu	lit. to steal a rafter and replace it with a column; to replace the original with a fake; to perpetrate a fraud (idiom)
偷汉子	tou	zi	(of a married woman) to cheat on her husband; to have an affair
偷油婆	tou	po	(dialect) cockroach
偷渡者	tou	zhe	smuggled illegal alien; stowaway
偷猎者	tou	zhe	poacher
偷窥狂	tou	kuang	voyeur; peeping tom
偷香窃玉	tou	yu	lit. stolen scent, pilfered jade (idiom); philandering; secret illicit sex
偷鸡不成蚀把米	tou	mi	lit. to try to steal a chicken only to end up losing the rice used to lure it (idiom); fig. to try to gain an advantage only to end up worse off; to go for wool and come back shorn
偷鸡不着蚀把米	tou	mi	see 偷雞不成蝕把米|偷鸡不成蚀把米[tou1 ji1 bu4 cheng2 shi2 ba3 mi3]
偷鸡摸狗	tou	gou	to imitate the dog and steal chicken (idiom); to pilfer; to dally with women
傀儡戏	kui	xi	puppet show
傀儡政权	kui	quan	puppet state; puppet regime
傅作义	fu	yi	Fu Zuoyi (1895–1974), Chinese general and politician, Nationalist commander who negotiated the peaceful surrender of Beiping (Beijing) to the Communists in 1949, and later held senior posts in the PRC government
傅科摆	fu	bai	Foucault's pendulum
傅立叶	fu	ye	Charles Fourier (French sociologist and socialist, 1772-1837)
傅立叶变换	fu	huan	(math.) Fourier transform
傅里叶	fu	ye	Jean-Baptiste-Joseph Fourier (French mathematician, 1768-1830)
傈僳族	li	zu	Lisu ethnic group
傍人篱壁	bang	bi	to depend on others
傍人门户	bang	hu	to be dependent upon sb
傍大款	bang	kuan	to live off a rich man
傍家儿	bang	r	lover; partner
傍柳随花	bang	hua	prostitute
储值卡	chu	ka	stored-value card; prepaid card (telephone, transport etc)
储备粮	chu	liang	grain reserves
储备货币	chu	bi	reserve currency
储备金	chu	jin	reserves (bank)
储气罐	chu	guan	gas tank (for gas, not gasoline)
储水管	chu	guan	standpipe (firefighting water storage system for a building)
储水箱	chu	xiang	water-storage tank
储物柜	chu	gui	locker; cabinet
储精囊	chu	nang	seminal vesicle
储蓄卡	chu	ka	debit card
储蓄率	chu	lv	savings rate
储藏室	chu	shi	storeroom; CL:間|间[jian1]
催乳激素	cui	su	prolactin
催产素	cui	su	oxytocin
催化作用	cui	yong	catalysis
催化剂	cui	ji	catalyst
催吐剂	cui	ji	an emetic
催泪剂	cui	ji	lachrymator
催泪大片	cui	pian	tear-jerker (movie)
催泪弹	cui	dan	tear bomb; tear-gas grenade
催泪瓦斯	cui	si	tear gas
催生婆	cui	po	midwife who induces labor
催生素	cui	su	oxytocin
催生者	cui	zhe	driving force behind sth
催眠师	cui	shi	hypnotist
催眠曲	cui	qu	lullaby
催眠术	cui	shu	hypnotism; hypnotherapy; mesmerism
催眠状态	cui	tai	hypnosis
催眠药	cui	yao	soporific drug
催肥剂	cui	ji	(animal) fattening preparation
傲慢不逊	ao	xun	see 傲慢無禮|傲慢无礼[ao4 man4 wu2 li3]
傲慢与偏见	ao	jian	Pride and Prejudice, novel by Jane Austen 珍·奧斯汀|珍·奥斯汀[Zhen1 · Ao4 si1 ting1]
傲慢少礼	ao	li	see 傲慢無禮|傲慢无礼[ao4 man4 wu2 li3]
傲慢无礼	ao	li	(idiom) arrogant; disrespectful
傲视群伦	ao	lun	outstanding talent (idiom); incomparable artistic merit; accomplishment out of the ordinary
傲雪凌霜	ao	shuang	see 欺霜傲雪[qi1 shuang1 ao4 xue3]
傲雪欺霜	ao	shuang	see 欺霜傲雪[qi1 shuang1 ao4 xue3]
傲霜凌雪	ao	xue	see 欺霜傲雪[qi1 shuang1 ao4 xue3]
傲霜斗雪	ao	xue	see 欺霜傲雪[qi1 shuang1 ao4 xue3]
傻不愣登	sha	deng	stupid; dazed
傻乎乎	sha	hu	feeble-minded; dim-witted
傻人有傻福	sha	fu	fortune favors fools (idiom); fool's luck
傻大个	sha	ge	idiot; blockhead; clod
傻大个儿	sha	r	stupid great hulk of a man
傻头傻脑	sha	nao	(idiom) stupid; muddle-headed
傻帽儿	sha	r	erhua variant of 傻帽[sha3 mao4]
傻愣愣	sha	leng	staring stupidly; petrified
傻爆眼	sha	yan	(slang) stunned; flabbergasted (emphatic form of 傻眼[sha3 yan3])
傻瓜干面	sha	mian	boiled noodles served without broth, topped with just a sprinkle of oil and some chopped spring onions, to which customers add vinegar, soy sauce or chili oil according to their taste
傻瓜式	sha	shi	foolproof
傻瓜相机	sha	ji	point-and-shoot camera; compact camera
傻白甜	sha	tian	(Internet slang) sweet, naive young woman
傻里傻气	sha	qi	foolish; stupid
像模像样	xiang	yang	solemn; presentable; decent
像那么回事儿	xiang	r	not bad at all; quite impressive
僧加罗语	seng	yu	Sinhalese (language)
僧多粥少	seng	shao	lit. many monks and not much gruel (idiom); fig. not enough to go around; demand exceeds supply
僧帽水母	seng	mu	(zoology) Portuguese man o' war (Physalia physalis)
僧帽猴	seng	hou	capuchin monkey; genus Cebidae
僧帽瓣	seng	ban	see 二尖瓣[er4 jian1 ban4]
僭主政治	jian	zhi	tyranny; government by usurper
僵住症	jiang	zheng	catalepsy
僵固性	jiang	xing	rigidity
僵尸粉	jiang	fen	"zombie fans", fake followers that can be bought to boost one's popularity on Weibo, Baidu etc
僵尸网络	jiang	luo	botnet; zombie network; slave network (used by spammers)
僵尸车	jiang	che	(coll.) abandoned car
儋州市	dan	shi	Danzhou, prefecture-level city in Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
儒林外史	ru	shi	The Scholars, satirical Qing dynasty novel by Wu Jingzi 吳敬梓|吴敬梓[Wu2 Jing4 zi3]
儒略日	ru	ri	Julian day (astronomy)
儿化音	er	yin	(Chinese phonetics) erhua (the sound of the r-coloring of a syllable final)
儿化韵	er	yun	(Chinese phonetics) syllable final with r-coloring; rhotacized syllable final
儿女双全	er	quan	to have both a son and a daughter
儿女英雄传	er	zhuan	The Gallant Maid, novel by Manchu-born Qing dynasty writer 文康[Wen2 Kang1]
儿媳妇	er	fu	daughter-in-law
儿媳妇儿	er	r	erhua form of 兒媳婦|儿媳妇[er2 xi2 fu4]
儿孙自有儿孙福	er	fu	younger generations will do all right on their own (idiom)
儿童乐园	er	yuan	children's play area
儿童基金会	er	hui	UNICEF (United Nations Children's fund)
儿童权利公约	er	yue	Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC)
儿童节	er	jie	Children's Day
儿茶素	er	su	catechin (biochemistry)
允文允武	yun	wu	equally proficient in intellectual and military affairs
元世祖	yuan	zu	lit. progenitor of the Yuan Dynasty (1279-1368), title of Khubilai Khan (1215-1294), first Yuan dynasty emperor, reigned 1260-1294
元元本本	yuan	ben	variant of 原原本本[yuan2 yuan2 ben3 ben3]
元古代	yuan	dai	Proterozoic (geological era 2500-540m years ago)
元古宙	yuan	zhou	pre-Cambrian (geological eon 2500-645m)
元器件	yuan	jian	component
元太祖	yuan	zu	posthumous title of Genghis Khan 成吉思汗[Cheng2 ji2 si1 han2] (1162-1227)
元好问	yuan	wen	Yuan Haowen (1190-1257), famous poet Northern China during the Jin-Yuan transition
元宇宙	yuan	zhou	(computing) metaverse
元宝区	yuan	qu	Yuanbao, a district of Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
元宝山	yuan	shan	see 元寶山區|元宝山区[Yuan2 bao3 shan1 Qu1]
元宝山区	yuan	qu	Yuanbaoshan, a district of Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
元宵节	yuan	jie	Lantern Festival, the final event of the Spring Festival 春節|春节, on 15th of first month of the lunar calendar
元山市	yuan	shi	Wonsan city in Kangweon province 江原道 of North Korea
元恶大憝	yuan	dui	arch-criminal and archenemy (idiom)
元数据	yuan	ju	metadata
元旦节	yuan	jie	New Year's Day
元曲四大家	yuan	jia	Four Great Yuan Dramatists, namely: Guan Hanqing 關漢卿|关汉卿[Guan1 Han4 qing1], Zheng Guangzu 鄭光祖|郑光祖[Zheng4 Guang1 zu3], Ma Zhiyuan 馬致遠|马致远[Ma3 Zhi4 yuan3] and Bai Pu 白樸|白朴[Bai2 Pu3]
元朗市	yuan	shi	Yuen Long town, Hong Kong Island
元氏县	yuan	xian	Yuanshi, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
元江县	yuan	xian	see 元江哈尼族彝族傣族自治縣|元江哈尼族彝族傣族自治县[Yuan2 jiang1 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
元素周期表	yuan	biao	periodic table of the elements (chemistry)
元老院	yuan	yuan	upper house; senate; senior statesmen's assembly
元胞自动机	yuan	ji	cellular automaton
元认知	yuan	zhi	metacognition
元诗四大家	yuan	jia	the four masters of Yuan poetry, namely 虞集[Yu2 Ji2], 範梈|范梈[Fan4 Peng1], 楊載|杨载[Yang2 Zai4] and 揭傒斯[Jie1 Xi1 si1]
元语言	yuan	yan	metalanguage
元语言能力	yuan	li	metalinguistic ability
元谋县	yuan	xian	Yuanmou, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
元资料	yuan	liao	metadata
元阳县	yuan	xian	Yuanyang, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
元音和谐	yuan	xie	vowel harmony (in phonetics of Altaic languages)
兄弟会	xiong	hui	fraternity
兄弟姐妹	xiong	mei	brothers and sisters; siblings
兄弟阋于墙外御其侮	xiong	wu	internal disunity dissolves at the threat of an invasion from outside (idiom)
兄弟阋墙	xiong	qiang	internecine strife (idiom); fighting among oneself
充值卡	chong	ka	rechargeable card; to recharge a card
充其量	chong	liang	at most; at best
充分就业	chong	ye	full employment
充分考虑	chong	lv	to give sufficient consideration to
充填因数	chong	shu	complementary factor
充填物	chong	wu	filling material; stuffing; lining
充气船	chong	chuan	inflatable boat
充满阳光	chong	guang	sun-drenched
充电器	chong	qi	battery charger
充电头	chong	tou	(coll.) wall charger; charging adapter
充电宝	chong	bao	power bank; portable charger
充电桩	chong	zhuang	electric vehicle charging point; EV charger
充电站	chong	zhan	charging station (for electric vehicles)
充耳不闻	chong	wen	to block one's ears and not listen (idiom); to turn a deaf ear
充要条件	chong	jian	necessary and sufficient condition
充足理由律	chong	lv	sufficient grounds (law)
兆字节	zhao	jie	megabyte (2^20 or approximately a million bytes)
兆瓦时	zhao	shi	megawatt-hour
兆瓦特	zhao	te	megawatt
兆电子伏	zhao	fu	mega electron volt (MeV) (unit of energy equal to 1.6 x 10⁻¹³ joules)
先下手为强	xian	qiang	(idiom) strike first to gain the upper hand
先不先	xian	xian	(dialect) first of all; in the first place
先入为主	xian	zhu	(idiom) the first impression is the strongest; to hold a preconceived notion (about sth)
先兵后礼	xian	li	opposite of 先禮後兵|先礼后兵[xian1 li3 hou4 bing1]
先决条件	xian	jian	precondition; prerequisite
先决问题	xian	ti	issue that needs to be addressed first (before another issue can be resolved)
先到先得	xian	de	first come first served
先发制人	xian	ren	(idiom) to gain the initiative by striking first; to preempt
先发投手	xian	shou	(baseball) starting pitcher
先后顺序	xian	xu	sequential order
先声夺人	xian	ren	to gain the upper hand by a show of strength
先大母	xian	mu	my late paternal grandmother
先天不足	xian	zu	to suffer from a congenital deficiency; to have an inherent weakness
先天不足后天失调	xian	tiao	to be born with a weak constitution and suffer from ill health during one's life; (fig.) to be problematic from the start, and get even worse over time
先天与后天	xian	tian	nature versus nurture
先天性	xian	xing	congenital; intrinsic; innate
先天性缺陷	xian	xian	birth defect
先天愚型	xian	xing	(old) Down syndrome; trisomy 21
先帝遗诏	xian	zhao	posthumous edict of a former emperor; Liu Bei's 劉備|刘备[Liu2 Bei4] edict to posterity
先斩后奏	xian	zou	(lit.) execute sb first, then report to the emperor (idiom); (fig.) to act first and report later; to take action without prior approval
先有后婚	xian	hun	to marry after getting pregnant
先期录音	xian	yin	(filmmaking) to prerecord a musical soundtrack to which actors will later synchronize their performance during filming
先来后到	xian	dao	(idiom) in order of arrival; first come, first served
先王之乐	xian	yue	the music of former kings
先王之政	xian	zheng	the rule of former kings
先王之道	xian	dao	the way of former kings
先睹为快	xian	kuai	(idiom) to consider it a pleasure to be among the first to read (or watch or enjoy)
先知先觉	xian	jue	having foresight; a person of foresight
先礼后兵	xian	bing	(idiom) try persuasion before resorting to force
先行者	xian	zhe	forerunner
先见之明	xian	ming	foresight
先见者	xian	zhe	a visionary
先走一步	xian	bu	to leave first (courteous expression used to excuse oneself); (euphemism) to predecease; to die first (e.g. before one's spouse)
先进个人	xian	ren	(official accolade) advanced individual; exemplary individual
先进先出	xian	chu	(computing, inventory management etc) first in, first out
先进武器	xian	qi	advanced weapon
先进水平	xian	ping	advanced level
先进集体	xian	ti	(official accolade) pace-setting team; exemplary group
先遣队	xian	dui	(military) advance party
先锋派	xian	pai	avant-garde
先锋队	xian	dui	vanguard
先驱者	xian	zhe	pioneer; trailblazer
先验概率	xian	lv	(math.) prior probability
光亮度	guang	du	brightness; luminosity
光伏器件	guang	jian	photovoltaic device (e.g. solar cell)
光信号	guang	hao	optical signal
光冲量	guang	liang	radiant exposure
光刻机	guang	ji	photolithography machine
光刻胶	guang	jiao	photoresist (laser etching used in microelectronics)
光前裕后	guang	hou	to bring honor to one's ancestors and benefit future generations (idiom)
光功率	guang	lv	optical power
光动嘴	guang	zui	empty talk; mere rhetoric; palaver
光化作用	guang	yong	photochemical effect; photosynthesis; photolysis
光化学	guang	xue	photochemistry
光化性角化病	guang	bing	(medicine) actinic keratosis, aka solar keratosis
光卤石	guang	shi	(mineralogy) carnallite
光发送器	guang	qi	optical transmitter
光合作用	guang	yong	photosynthesis
光复会	guang	hui	anti-Qing revolutionary party set up in 1904 under Cai Yuanpei 蔡元培[Cai4 Yuan2 pei2]; aka 復古會|复古会[Fu4 gu3 hui4]
光天化日	guang	ri	the full light of day (idiom); fig. peace and prosperity; in broad daylight
光头党	guang	dang	skinheads
光头强	guang	qiang	Logger Vick (Boonie Bears character); nickname for bald people
光学仪器	guang	qi	optical instrument
光学字符识别	guang	bie	optical character recognition (OCR)
光学显微镜	guang	jing	optical microscope
光学雷达	guang	da	lidar
光宗耀祖	guang	zu	to bring honor to one's ancestors
光导纤维	guang	wei	optical fiber
光射线	guang	xian	light ray
光山县	guang	xian	Guangshan, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
光彩夺目	guang	mu	dazzling; brilliant
光影效	guang	xiao	lighting effect
光怪陆离	guang	li	monstrous and multicolored; grotesque and variegated
光感应	guang	ying	optical response; reaction to light; light sensitive
光接收器	guang	qi	optical receiver
光明区	guang	qu	Guangming, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
光明日报	guang	bao	Guangming Daily, a Beijing newspaper
光明正大	guang	da	(of a person) honorable; not devious; (of a behavior) fair and aboveboard; without tricks; openly; (of a situation) out in the open
光明磊落	guang	luo	open and candid (idiom); straightforward and upright
光明节	guang	jie	Hanukkah (Chanukah), 8 day Jewish holiday starting on the 25th day of Kislev (can occur from late Nov up to late Dec on Gregorian calendar); also called 哈努卡節|哈努卡节 and simply 哈努卡
光杆司令	guang	ling	commander without any soldiers; (fig.) leader without a team; solo entrepreneur
光检测器	guang	qi	optical detector
光棍儿	guang	r	bachelor; single man (erhua form of 光棍[guang1 gun4])
光棍节	guang	jie	Singles' Day (November 11), originally a day of activities for single people, but now also the world's biggest annual retail sales day
光污染	guang	ran	light pollution
光波长	guang	chang	optical wavelength
光泽县	guang	xian	Guangze, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
光照度	guang	du	illuminance (physics)
光照治疗	guang	liao	light therapy; phototherapy
光球层	guang	ceng	photosphere
光电二极管	guang	guan	photodiode
光电子	guang	zi	photoelectron
光电效应	guang	ying	photoelectric effect
光盘驱动器	guang	qi	CD or DVD drive; abbr. to 光驅|光驱
光磁碟	guang	die	magneto-optical disk; floptical disk
光磁碟机	guang	ji	magneto-optical drive; floptical drive
光禄勋	guang	xun	minister of the imperial household
光禄大夫	guang	fu	honorific title during Tang to Qing times, approx. "Glorious grand master"
光秃秃	guang	tu	bald; bare (no hair, no leaves, no vegetation etc)
光纤分布式数据接口	guang	kou	Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)
光纤分布数据接口	guang	kou	Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)
光纤分散式资料介面	guang	mian	(Tw) Fiber Distributed Data Interface (FDDI)
光纤接口	guang	kou	optical interface
光纤电缆	guang	lan	optical fiber; optical cable
光纤衰减	guang	jian	optical attenuation
光线追踪	guang	zong	(computing) ray tracing
光绪帝	guang	di	Guangxu Emperor
光耀门楣	guang	mei	splendor shines on the family's door (idiom); fig. to bring honor to one's family
光耦合器	guang	qi	optocoupler (electronics)
光背地鸫	guang	dong	(bird species of China) plain-backed thrush (Zoothera mollissima)
光能合成	guang	cheng	photosynthesis
光脚的不怕穿鞋的	guang	de	lit. the barefooted people are not afraid of those who wear shoes (idiom); fig. the poor, who have nothing to lose, do not fear those in power
光腚肿菊	guang	ju	(Internet slang) punning reference to 廣電總局|广电总局[Guang3 dian4 Zong3 ju2], the National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA)
光膀子	guang	zi	bare upper body; bare-chested; to bare one's chest
光芒万丈	guang	zhang	(idiom) boundless radiance; splendor
光荣榜	guang	bang	honor roll
光荣革命	guang	ming	Glorious Revolution (England, 1688)
光说不做	guang	zuo	(idiom) to be all talk and no action; to preach what one does not practice
光说不练	guang	lian	all talk and no action (idiom); to preach what one does not practice; same as 光說不做|光说不做[guang1 shuo1 bu4 zuo4]
光谱仪	guang	yi	spectrometer; spectrograph
光谱分析	guang	xi	spectral analysis
光谱图	guang	tu	spectrogram
光谱学	guang	xue	spectroscopy
光辐射	guang	she	light radiation
光通量	guang	liang	luminous flux (physics)
光遗传学	guang	xue	optogenetics
光阴似箭	guang	jian	time flies like an arrow (idiom); How time flies!
光阴荏苒	guang	ran	(idiom) How time flies!
光隔离器	guang	qi	opto-isolator (electronics)
光面内质网	guang	wang	smooth endoplasmic reticulum
光风霁月	guang	yue	lit. light breeze and clear moon (idiom); period of peace and prosperity; noble and benevolent character
克东县	ke	xian	Kedong, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
克丝钳子	ke	zi	wire cutting pincers
克什克腾	ke	teng	Hexigten banner or Kesigüten khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
克什克腾旗	ke	qi	Hexigten banner or Kesigüten khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
克什米尔	ke	er	Kashmir
克仑特罗	ke	luo	clenbuterol
克他命	ke	ming	ketamine (loanword)
克利夫兰	ke	lan	Cleveland
克利斯朵夫	ke	fu	Christopher (name)
克劳修斯	ke	si	Rudolf Clausius (1822-1888), German physicist and mathematician
克劳德	ke	de	Claude (name)
克劳斯	ke	si	Claus or Klaus (name)
克勤克俭	ke	jian	(idiom) industrious and frugal
克基拉岛	ke	dao	Corfu (Greek: Kerkira), island in the Ionian sea
克娄巴特拉	ke	la	Cleopatra (c. 70–30 BC), queen of Egypt
克孜勒	ke	le	Kyzyl, capital of Tuva 圖瓦|图瓦[Tu2 wa3]
克孜勒苏	ke	su	see 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
克孜勒苏州	ke	zhou	see 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
克孜勒苏河	ke	he	Qizilsu or Kizilsu River in Xinjiang
克孜尔千佛洞	ke	dong	Kezil thousand-Buddha grotto in Baicheng 拜城, Aksu 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区, Xinjiang
克孜尔尕哈	ke	ha	Kizilgaha, site of a famous fire beacon tower and cliff caves in Kuqa, Aksu Prefecture, Xinjiang
克尔白	ke	bai	Ka'aba, sacred building in Mecca
克山县	ke	xian	Keshan, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
克己复礼	ke	li	restrain yourself and return to the rites (idiom, from Analects); to subdue self and observe proprieties; (any number of possible translations)
克己奉公	ke	gong	self-restraint and devotion to public duties (idiom); selfless dedication; to serve the public interest wholeheartedly
克拉克	ke	ke	(name) Clark or Clarke
克拉夫丘克	ke	ke	Leonid Kravchuk (1934-), first post-communist president of Ukraine 1991-1994
克拉斯诺亚尔斯克	ke	ke	Krasnoyarsk
克拉斯诺达尔	ke	er	Krasnodar (city in Russia)
克拉玛依	ke	yi	see 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4]; see 克拉瑪依區|克拉玛依区[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Qu1]
克拉玛依区	ke	qu	Karamay, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
克拉玛依市	ke	shi	Karamay, prefecture-level city in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
克拉科夫	ke	fu	Krakow
克拉通	ke	tong	craton (loanword)
克朗代克	ke	ke	Klondike in northwest Canada
克林姆	ke	mu	cream (loanword)
克林姆酱	ke	jiang	pastry cream; crème pâtissière
克林德	ke	de	Clemens von Ketteler (1853–1900), German diplomat killed during the Boxer Rebellion 義和團運動|义和团运动[Yi4 he2 tuan2 Yun4 dong4]
克林霉素	ke	su	(pharmacology) clindamycin
克林顿	ke	dun	Clinton (name); Bill Clinton (1946-), US Democratic politician, President 1993-2001; Hillary Rodham Clinton (1947-), US Democratic politician
克格勃	ke	bo	KGB (Soviet secret police); member of the KGB
克氏原螯虾	ke	xia	red swamp crayfish (Procambarus clarkii); Louisiana crawfish
克氏黑鳍鳈	ke	quan	Cherskii's thicklip gudgeon (Sarcocheilichthys czerskii), a species of cyprinid fish endemic to the Amur River basin
克汀病	ke	bing	cretinism
克沙奇病毒	ke	du	Coxsackievirus
克流感	ke	gan	(Tw) Tamiflu
克漏字	ke	zi	cloze (loanword) (Tw)
克绍箕裘	ke	qiu	to follow in one's father's footsteps
克维拉	ke	la	Kevlar
克罗地亚	ke	ya	Croatia
克罗地亚共和国	ke	guo	Republic of Croatia
克罗地亚语	ke	yu	Croatian (language)
克罗埃西亚	ke	ya	Croatia (Tw)
克罗诺斯	ke	si	Cronus (Titan of Greek mythology)
克耶族	ke	zu	Kaya or Karenni ethnic group of Myanmar
克耶邦	ke	bang	Kaya state of Myanmar
克苏鲁	ke	lu	Cthulhu, fictional cosmic entity created by writer H. P. Lovecraft
克莉奥佩特拉	ke	la	Cleopatra (c. 70–30 BC), queen of Egypt
克莱因	ke	yin	Klein or Kline (name); Felix Klein (1849-1925), German mathematician
克莱尔	ke	er	Claire (name)
克莱尔蒙特	ke	te	(place name) Claremont or Clermont
克莱斯勒	ke	le	Chrysler (car manufacturer)
克莱蒙	ke	meng	(French place name) Clermont
克莱蒙特	ke	te	(place name) Claremont or Clermont
克莱顿	ke	dun	(name) Clayton or Crichton
克蕾儿	ke	r	Clare (name)
克虏伯	ke	bo	Krupp
克赖斯特彻奇	ke	qi	Christchurch (New Zealand city)
克里奥尔语	ke	yu	creole language
克里姆林宫	ke	gong	the Kremlin
克里斯托弗	ke	fu	(Warren) Christopher
克里斯汀	ke	ting	(name) Christine, Kristine, Kristen, Kristin etc; Christiane; Christian
克里斯蒂娃	ke	wa	Julia Kristeva (1941-), Bulgarian-French psychoanalyst, philosopher and literary critic
克里斯蒂安	ke	an	Kristian or Christian (name)
克里斯蒂安松	ke	song	Kristiansund (city in Norway)
克里普斯	ke	si	Cripps (name); Sir Stafford Cripps (1889-1952), UK socialist politician
克里木	ke	mu	Crimea; the Crimean peninsula
克里木半岛	ke	dao	Crimea; the Crimean peninsula
克里木战争	ke	zheng	the Crimean War (1853-1856)
克里特	ke	te	Crete
克里特岛	ke	dao	Crete
克里米亚	ke	ya	Crimea
克隆人	ke	ren	clone human
克隆技术	ke	shu	cloning technology
克隆氏病	ke	bing	Crohn's disease
克雅氏病	ke	bing	Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (CJD)
克雷伯氏菌属	ke	shu	(microbiology) Klebsiella
克霉唑	ke	zuo	clotrimazole (antifungal agent)
免不了	mian	liao	unavoidable; can't be avoided
免不得	mian	de	unavoidable; bound to (happen)
免去职务	mian	wu	to relieve from office; to sack
免受伤害	mian	hai	to avoid damage
免开尊口	mian	kou	keep your thoughts to yourself
免洗杯	mian	bei	disposable cup (Tw)
免洗筷	mian	kuai	(Tw) disposable chopsticks
免疫力	mian	li	immunity
免疫反应	mian	ying	immune response
免疫学	mian	xue	immunology
免疫应答	mian	da	immune response
免疫法	mian	fa	immunization
免疫系统	mian	tong	immune system
免责声明	mian	ming	disclaimer
免责条款	mian	kuan	disclaimer
免费搭车	mian	che	free riding (economics)
免费软件	mian	jian	freeware
免赔条款	mian	kuan	franchise clause (insurance)
兑换率	dui	lv	currency exchange rate
兔子不吃窝边草	tu	cao	(lit.) a rabbit never eats the grass beside its own burrow (saying); (fig.) even a scoundrel does not do harm in his immediate neighborhood
兔子尾巴长不了	tu	liao	rabbits don't have long tails (idiom); its days are numbered; won't last long
兔崽子	tu	zi	brat; bastard
兔斯基	tu	ji	Tuzki, a Chinese cartoon rabbit character used in emoticons and stickers, created in 2006
兔死狐悲	tu	bei	lit. if the rabbit dies, the fox grieves (idiom); fig. to have sympathy with a like-minded person in distress
兔死狗烹	tu	peng	(lit.) when the rabbit is dead, the hunting dogs are cooked (idiom); (fig.) to discard or eliminate someone once they are no longer useful
兔热病	tu	bing	tularemia; rabbit fever
兔羔子	tu	zi	see 兔崽子[tu4 zai3 zi5]
兖州区	yan	qu	Yanzhou, a district of Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
党中央	dang	yang	Central Committee of the CCP
党主席	dang	xi	party chief
党代会	dang	hui	party congress (of the Communist Party of China)
党八股	dang	gu	drab, stereotypical Communist Party writing style
党同伐异	dang	yi	to be narrowly partisan; to unite with those of the same views but alienate those with different views
党外人士	dang	shi	non-party members
党政机关	dang	guan	(Communist) Party and government organizations
党派集会	dang	hui	party meeting
党项族	dang	zu	Tangut branch of the Qiang 羌 ethnic group; ancient ethnic group who made up the Xixia dynasty 西夏 1038-1227
兜兜转转	dou	zhuan	(lit. and fig.) to go around and around; to wander around
兜圈子	dou	zi	to encircle; to go around; to circle
兢兢业业	jing	ye	(idiom) conscientious; assiduous
入不敷出	ru	chu	income does not cover expenditure; unable to make ends meet
入乡随俗	ru	su	(idiom) when in Rome, do as the Romans do
入伍生	ru	sheng	newly enlisted officer student; cadet
入侵物种	ru	zhong	invasive species
入侵者	ru	zhe	intruder
入关学	ru	xue	theory proposed in 2019 on Chinese social media, centering on the idea of China replacing the United States as the dominant nation in a new world order, drawing an analogy with the Manchu overthrow of the Ming dynasty, achieved after the Qing army entered China via the Shanhai Pass 入關|入关[ru4 guan1]
入口就化	ru	hua	to melt in one's mouth
入口网	ru	wang	Web portal; (enterprise) portal
入口页	ru	ye	web portal
入围者	ru	zhe	finalist; qualifier; person or item selected as one of the best
入土为安	ru	an	buried and at rest (idiom); Resquiescat in pacem (RIP)
入场券	ru	quan	admission ticket; (fig.) qualification to enter a higher-level competition or field
入场式	ru	shi	ceremonial entry; opening procession
入场费	ru	fei	admission fee
入境签证	ru	zheng	entry visa
入境问俗	ru	su	When you enter a country, enquire about the local customs (idiom); do as the natives do; When in Rome, do as the Romans do
入境随俗	ru	su	when in Rome, do as the Romans do
入学率	ru	lv	percentage of children who enter school
入情入理	ru	li	sensible and reasonable (idiom)
入木三分	ru	fen	written in a forceful hand; penetrating; profound
入海口	ru	kou	estuary
入罪化	ru	hua	to criminalize (an activity)
入门课程	ru	cheng	introductory course; primer
入风口	ru	kou	air intake vent
全世界	quan	jie	worldwide; entire world
全世界第一	quan	yi	world's first
全体人员	quan	yuan	crew
全体会议	quan	yi	general congress; meeting of the whole committee
全军覆没	quan	mo	total defeat of an army (idiom); fig. a complete wipeout
全副武装	quan	zhuang	fully armed; armed to the teeth; fig. fully equipped
全副精力	quan	li	to concentrate entirely on sth; fully engaged; with full force
全力以赴	quan	fu	(idiom) to make an all-out effort
全南县	quan	xian	Quannan, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
全国人大	quan	da	National People's Congress (NPC) (abbr. for 全國人民代表大會|全国人民代表大会[Quan2 guo2 Ren2 min2 Dai4 biao3 Da4 hui4])
全国人大会议	quan	yi	National People's Congress (NPC)
全国人大常委会	quan	hui	Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (abbr. for 全國人民代表大會常務委員會|全国人民代表大会常务委员会[Quan2 guo2 Ren2 min2 Dai4 biao3 Da4 hui4 Chang2 wu4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
全国人民代表大会	quan	hui	National People's Congress (NPC)
全国代表大会	quan	hui	national general congress; Communist party national congress, in recent times every five years
全国性	quan	xing	national
全国民主联盟	quan	meng	Myanmar or Burma National league for democracy (NLD)
全国运动会	quan	hui	National Games, Chinese athletics competition, organized every four years since 1959
全地形车	quan	che	all-terrain vehicle (ATV)
全场一致	quan	zhi	unanimous
全垒打	quan	da	home run (baseball)
全天候	quan	hou	all-weather; 24-hour
全家福	quan	fu	photograph of the entire family; hodgepodge (cookery)
全局作用域	quan	yu	(computing) global scope
全局性	quan	xing	global
全局模块	quan	kuai	global module
全州县	quan	xian	Quanzhou, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
全州市	quan	shi	Jeonju city, capital of North Jeolla Province, in west South Korea
全度音	quan	yin	whole tone (musical interval)
全心全意	quan	yi	(idiom) heart and soul; wholeheartedly
全情投入	quan	ru	to put one's heart and soul into
全攻全守	quan	shou	total football (soccer)
全文搜索	quan	suo	full-text search
全文检索	quan	suo	full-text search
全斗焕	quan	huan	Chun Doo Hwan (1931-), South Korean politician, president 1980-1988
全新世	quan	shi	(geology) the Holocene Epoch
全新纪	quan	ji	(geology) the Holocene Epoch
全新统	quan	tong	holocene system (geological strata laid down during the last 12000 years)
全方位	quan	wei	all around; omnidirectional; complete
全无准备	quan	bei	completely unprepared
全日制	quan	zhi	full-time (schooling, work etc)
全日空	quan	kong	All Nippon Airways (ANA)
全时工作	quan	zuo	(Tw) full-time work
全权代表	quan	biao	plenipotentiary; fully authorized representative
全权大使	quan	shi	plenipotentiary ambassador
全椒县	quan	xian	Quanjiao, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
全民健保	quan	bao	National Health Insurance (Tw) (abbr. for 全民健康保險|全民健康保险[Quan2 min2 Jian4 kang1 Bao3 xian3])
全民健康保险	quan	xian	National Health Insurance (Tw)
全民公决	quan	jue	referendum
全民投票	quan	piao	referendum; plebiscite
全民皆兵	quan	bing	to bring the entire nation to arms (idiom)
全民英检	quan	jian	General English Proficiency Test (GEPT), commissioned by Taiwan's Ministry of Education in 1999
全烧祭	quan	ji	burnt offering (Judaism)
全熟蛋	quan	dan	hard-boiled egg
全球位置测定系统	quan	tong	GPS (Global Positioning System)
全球化	quan	hua	globalization
全球南方	quan	fang	(geopolitics) the Global South
全球卫星导航系统	quan	tong	Globalnaya Navigatsionaya Satelinaya Sistema or Global Navigation Satellite System (GLONASS), the Russian equivalent of GPS; abbr. to 格洛納斯|格洛纳斯
全球变暖	quan	nuan	global warming (PRC usage); written 全球暖化 in Taiwan
全球定位系统	quan	tong	GPS (Global Positioning System)
全球性	quan	xing	global; worldwide
全球暖化	quan	hua	global warming (Taiwan and Hong Kong usage); written 全球變暖|全球变暖 in PRC
全球气候	quan	hou	global climate
全球气候升温	quan	wen	global warming
全球气候变暖	quan	nuan	global warming
全球而言	quan	yan	globally; worldwide
全球资讯网	quan	wang	(Tw) World Wide Web
全球通	quan	tong	Global System for Mobile Communications (GSM) (telecommunications)
全知全能	quan	neng	(idiom) omniscient and omnipotent
全神灌注	quan	zhu	variant of 全神貫注|全神贯注[quan2 shen2 guan4 zhu4]
全神贯注	quan	zhu	(idiom) to concentrate one's attention completely; with rapt attention
全科医生	quan	sheng	general practitioner
全端工程师	quan	shi	full-stack developer (computing)
全等图形	quan	xing	congruent figure (geometry)
全等形	quan	xing	(math.) congruent figure
全素食	quan	shi	vegan
全罗北道	quan	dao	North Jeolla Province, in west South Korea, capital Jeonju 全州[Quan2 zhou1]
全罗南道	quan	dao	South Jeolla Province, in southwest South Korea, capital Gwangju 光州[Guang1 zhou1]
全罗道	quan	dao	Jeolla or Cholla Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Jeolla Province 全羅北道|全罗北道[Quan2 luo2 bei3 dao4] and South Jeolla Province 全羅南道|全罗南道[Quan2 luo2 nan2 dao4]
全美广播公司	quan	si	National Broadcasting Company (NBC)
全职太太	quan	tai	housewife; stay-at-home wife
全聚德	quan	de	Quanjude (famous Chinese restaurant)
全节流	quan	liu	full throttle; top speed
全谷物	quan	wu	whole grain
全资附属公司	quan	si	wholly owned subsidiary
全跏坐	quan	zuo	crossed leg posture (usu. of Buddha)
全身心	quan	xin	wholeheartedly; (to devote oneself) heart and soul
全身性红斑狼疮	quan	chuang	systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
全身而退	quan	tui	(idiom) to escape unscathed; to get through in one piece
全身镜	quan	jing	full-length mirror
全身麻醉	quan	zui	general anesthesia
全轮驱动	quan	dong	all-wheel drive
全运会	quan	hui	abbr. for 全國運動會|全国运动会[Quan2 guo2 Yun4 dong4 hui4]
全面禁止	quan	zhi	complete prohibition; total ban
全面禁止核试验条约	quan	yue	Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty
全须全尾儿	quan	r	(Beijing dialect) intact; in one piece
八一五	ba	wu	15th August, the anniversary of Japan's surrender in 1945
八一建军节	ba	jie	see 建軍節|建军节[Jian4 jun1 jie2]
八万大藏经	ba	jing	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
八九不离十	ba	shi	pretty close; very near; about right
八二三炮战	ba	zhan	bombardment of Kinmen by PRC forces that started August 23rd 1958, also called the Second Taiwan Strait Crisis
八二丹	ba	dan	eight-to-two powder (TCM)
八仙桌	ba	zhuo	old-fashioned square table to seat eight people
八仙湖	ba	hu	see 草海[Cao3 hai3]
八仙过海各显其能	ba	neng	see 八仙過海，各顯神通|八仙过海，各显神通[Ba1 xian1 guo4 hai3 , ge4 xian3 shen2 tong1]
八仙过海各显神通	ba	tong	lit. the Eight Immortals cross the sea, each showing his own special talent (idiom); fig. (of each individual in a group) to give full play to one's unique capabilities
八会穴	ba	xue	the eight influential points (acupuncture)
八佰伴	ba	ban	Yaohan retail group
八倍体	ba	ti	octoploid
八八六	ba	liu	Bye bye! (in chat room and text messages)
八公山	ba	shan	see 八公山區|八公山区[Ba1 gong1 shan1 Qu1]
八公山区	ba	qu	Bagongshan, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
八分之一	ba	yi	one eighth
八分音符	ba	fu	quaver; eighth note
八加一	ba	yi	(slang) alcohol; liquor (euphemistic substitute for 酒[jiu3], from 8+1=9, 九[jiu3] being a homophone of 酒[jiu3])
八十天环游地球	ba	qiu	Around the World in Eighty Days by Jules Verne 儒勒·凡爾納|儒勒·凡尔纳[Ru2 le4 · Fan2 er3 na4]
八卦山	ba	shan	Bagua Mountain, Taiwan
八卦拳	ba	quan	baguazhang (a form of Chinese boxing)
八卦掌	ba	zhang	baguazhang (a form of Chinese boxing)
八卦阵	ba	zhen	eight-trigram battle array; (fig.) mystifying tactics
八哥儿	ba	r	erhua variant of 八哥[ba1 ge1]
八哥狗	ba	gou	pug (breed of dog)
八国联军	ba	jun	Eight-Nation Alliance, involved in a military intervention in northern China in 1900
八国集团	ba	tuan	G8 (group of eight major industrialized nations)
八块腹肌	ba	ji	six pack (abdominal muscles)
八声杜鹃	ba	juan	(bird species of China) plaintive cuckoo (Cacomantis merulinus)
八大元老	ba	lao	"the Eight Great Eminent Officials" of the CCP, namely 鄧小平|邓小平[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2], 陳雲|陈云[Chen2 Yun2], 李先念[Li3 Xian1 nian4], 彭真[Peng2 Zhen1], 楊尚昆|杨尚昆[Yang2 Shang4 kun1], 薄一波[Bo2 Yi1 bo1], 王震[Wang2 Zhen4], and 宋任窮|宋任穷[Song4 Ren4 qiong2]; abbr. to 八老[Ba1 lao3]
八大工业国组织	ba	zhi	G8 (group of eight major industrialized nations)
八大菜系	ba	xi	the eight major cuisines of China, namely 川魯粵蘇浙閩湘徽|川鲁粤苏浙闽湘徽[Chuan1 Lu3 Yue4 Su1 Zhe4 Min3 Xiang1 Hui1]
八字命理	ba	li	divination based on the eight characters of one's birth date
八字形	ba	xing	shape resembling the character 八 or 8; V-shape; splayed
八字方针	ba	zhen	a policy expressed as an eight-character slogan; (esp.) the eight-character slogan for the economic policy proposed by Li Fuchun 李富春[Li3 Fu4 chun1] in 1961: 調整、鞏固、充實、提高|调整、巩固、充实、提高[tiao2 zheng3 , gong3 gu4 , chong1 shi2 , ti2 gao1] "adjust, consolidate, enrich and improve"
八字步	ba	bu	step with feet splayed outwards
八字没一撇	ba	pie	lit. there is not even the first stroke of the character 八[ba1] (idiom); fig. things have not even begun to take shape; no sign of success yet
八字眉	ba	mei	sloping eyebrows, formed like character for "eight"
八字胡	ba	hu	mustache shaped like character 八
八字胡须	ba	xu	mustache shaped like character 八
八字脚	ba	jiao	splayfoot
八字还没一撇	ba	pie	lit. not even the first stroke of the character 八[ba1] has been written (idiom); fig. things have not even gotten started yet; nothing tangible has come of one's plans yet
八字还没一撇儿	ba	r	lit. there is not even the first stroke of the character 八[ba1] (idiom); fig. things have not even begun to take shape; no sign of success yet
八宝丹	ba	dan	eight-jewel elixir (TCM)
八宝山	ba	shan	Babaoshan, a hill in Shijingshan District, Beijing, site of the Babaoshan Revolutionary Cemetery 八寶山革命公墓|八宝山革命公墓[Ba1 bao3 shan1 Ge2 ming4 Gong1 mu4]
八宝山革命公墓	ba	mu	Babaoshan Revolutionary Cemetery in Shijingshan District, Beijing
八宝眼药	ba	yao	eight-jewel eye ointment (TCM)
八宝粥	ba	zhou	rice congee made with red beans, lotus seeds, longan, red dates, nuts etc
八宝饭	ba	fan	Eight Treasures Rice, Chinese rice pudding dessert usually made with eight types of candied fruits, nuts, seeds etc, popular during the Lunar New Year
八家将	ba	jiang	Ba Jia Jiang, the eight generals that guard the godly realm in Taiwanese folklore, represented by troupes of dancers in temple processions; (slang) lowlife gangster or young hoodlum, often written as "8+9", [ba1 jia1 jiu3]
八宿县	ba	xian	Pasho, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
八小时工作制	ba	zhi	eight-hour workday system
八岐大蛇	ba	she	Yamata no Orochi, serpent with eight heads and eight tails from mythological section of Nihon Shoki (Chronicles of Japan)
八带蛸	ba	shao	(Shandong dialect) octopus
八带鱼	ba	yu	octopus
八廓街	ba	jie	Barkhor street, central business area and pilgrim circuit around Jokhang temple in Lhasa, Tibet
八强赛	ba	sai	quarterfinals
八抬大轿	ba	jiao	palanquin with eight carriers; (fig.) lavish treatment
八拜之交	ba	jiao	sworn brotherhood; intimate friendship
八斗之才	ba	cai	see 才高八斗[cai2 gao1 ba1 dou3]
八旗制度	ba	du	Eight Banners system, the military and social organization of the Manchus between c. 1500 and 1911
八旗子弟	ba	di	child of a Manchu bannerman family (nobility); (fig.) privileged brat
八月之光	ba	guang	Light in August (novel by William Faulkner 威廉·福克納|威廉·福克纳[Wei1 lian2 · Fu2 ke4 na4])
八月份	ba	fen	August
八杆子打不着	ba	zhao	variant of 八竿子打不著|八竿子打不着[ba1 gan1 zi5 da3 bu4 zhao2]
八极拳	ba	quan	Ba Ji Quan "Eight Extremes Fist" - Martial Art
八正道	ba	dao	the Eight-fold Noble Way (Buddhism)
八步区	ba	qu	Babu, a district of Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
八段锦	ba	jin	eight-section brocade, a traditional eight-part sequence of qigong exercises
八法拳	ba	quan	Ba Fa Quan "Eight Methods" - Martial Art
八点档	ba	dang	8:00 p.m. time slot (on television); (Tw) (coll.) television drama series that airs in the prime time slot of 8:00 p.m.
八爪鱼	ba	yu	octopus
八珍汤	ba	tang	eight-treasure decoction, tonic formula used in Chinese medicine
八疸身面黄	ba	huang	eight types of jaundice with yellowing of body and face (TCM)
八目鳗	ba	man	lamprey (jawless proto-fish of family Petromyzontidae)
八相成道	ba	dao	the eight stages of the Buddha's life (Buddhism)
八竿子打不着	ba	zhao	(coll.) unrelated; lacking any connection
八级工	ba	gong	grade 8 worker (highest on the eight grade wage scale); top-grade worker
八级工资制	ba	zhi	eight grade wage scale (system)
八级风	ba	feng	force 8 wind; fresh gale
八纲辨证	ba	zheng	pattern-syndrome identification based on the eight principles (TCM)
八股文	ba	wen	eight-part essay one had to master to pass the imperial exams in Ming and Qing dynasties
八般头风	ba	feng	(TCM) eight kinds of "head wind" (headache)
八荣八耻	ba	chi	Eight Honors and Eight Shames, PRC official moral guidelines
八行书	ba	shu	formal recommendation letter in eight columns
八角床	ba	chuang	traditional-style canopy bed
八角形	ba	xing	octagon
八角枫	ba	feng	alangium
八角笼	ba	long	MMA octagon (octagonal cage used for mixed martial arts bouts)
八角茴香	ba	xiang	Chinese anise; star anise; Fructus Anisi Stellati
八角街	ba	jie	Barkhor street, central business area and pilgrim circuit around Jokhang temple in Lhasa, Tibet, aka 八廓街[Ba1 kuo4 Jie1]
八路军	ba	jun	Eighth Route Army, the larger of the two major Chinese communist forces fighting the Japanese in the Second Sino-Japanese War (1937-1945)
八辈子	ba	zi	(fig.) a long time
八边形	ba	xing	octagon
八达岭	ba	ling	Badaling, a particular section of the Great Wall that is a favorite tourist destination
八达通	ba	tong	Octopus (Hong Kong smart card system for electronic payments)
八达通卡	ba	ka	Octopus card (Hong Kong smart card for electronic payments)
八进制	ba	zhi	octal
八重奏	ba	zou	octet (musical ensemble)
八面体	ba	ti	octahedron
八面玲珑	ba	long	be smooth and slick (in establishing social relations)
八音盒	ba	he	music box
八风穴	ba	xue	"eight wind points", name of a set of acupuncture points (EX-LE-10), four on each foot
公主岭	gong	ling	see 公主嶺市|公主岭市[Gong1 zhu3 ling3 Shi4]
公主岭市	gong	shi	Gongzhuling, a county-level city in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
公主抱	gong	bao	to carry sb the way grooms carry brides across the threshold
公主病	gong	bing	(neologism c. 1997) (coll.) self-entitlement
公主车	gong	che	ladies bicycle
公之于世	gong	shi	(idiom) to announce to the world; to make public; to let everyone know
公之于众	gong	zhong	to make known to the masses (idiom); to publicize widely; to let the world know
公买公卖	gong	mai	buying and selling at fair prices
公事公办	gong	ban	to do things in a strictly businesslike manner (idiom)
公事包	gong	bao	(Tw) briefcase
公事房	gong	fang	(old) government office
公交卡	gong	ka	IC card used for paying fares on public transportation systems such as buses and subways
公交站	gong	zhan	public transport station
公交车	gong	che	public transport vehicle; town bus; CL:輛|辆[liang4]
公仔面	gong	mian	brand of Hong Kong instant noodles; also used as term for instant noodles in general
公休日	gong	ri	public holiday
公众人物	gong	wu	public figure; famous person
公众号	gong	hao	official account (esp. on WeChat)
公众意见	gong	jian	public opinion
公众集会	gong	hui	public meeting
公使馆	gong	guan	embassy (old term); foreign mission
公信力	gong	li	public trust; credibility
公倍式	gong	shi	common multiple expression
公倍数	gong	shu	common multiple
公债券	gong	quan	government bond; public bond
公允价值	gong	zhi	fair value (accounting)
公元前	gong	qian	BCE (before the Common Era); BC (before Christ)
公共事业	gong	ye	public utility; state-run enterprise; public foundation or enterprise, often charitable
公共交换电话网	gong	wang	public switched telephone network (PSTN)
公共交通	gong	tong	public transport; mass transit
公共休息室	gong	shi	shared lounge; common room
公共假期	gong	qi	public holiday
公共关系	gong	xi	public relations
公共卫生	gong	sheng	public health
公共团体	gong	ti	public organization
公共场所	gong	suo	public place
公共安全罪	gong	zui	crime against public order
公共开支	gong	zhi	public expenditure
公共汽车	gong	che	bus; CL:輛|辆[liang4],班[ban1]
公共汽车站	gong	zhan	bus stop; bus station
公共知识分子	gong	zi	public intellectual (sometimes used derogatorily)
公共秩序	gong	xu	public order
公共行政	gong	zheng	public administration
公共设施	gong	shi	public facilities; infrastructure
公共财产	gong	chan	public property
公共道德	gong	de	public morality; social ethics
公共零点	gong	dian	common zeros (of system of equations)
公分母	gong	mu	(math.) common denominator
公制单位	gong	wei	metric units
公务人员	gong	yuan	government functionary
公务员	gong	yuan	civil servant; public servant
公务舱	gong	cang	business class (travel class on airplanes, trains etc)
公司三明治	gong	zhi	club sandwich
公司会议	gong	yi	company meeting
公司债	gong	zhai	corporate bonds (finance)
公司治理	gong	li	corporate governance
公司法	gong	fa	corporations law; company law; corporate law
公司理财	gong	cai	company finance; corporate finance
公司行号	gong	hao	(Tw) companies; businesses
公听会	gong	hui	public hearing
公因子	gong	zi	(math.) common factor
公因式	gong	shi	common factor; common divisor (of a math. expression)
公因数	gong	shu	see 公約數|公约数[gong1 yue1 shu4]
公地悲剧	gong	ju	tragedy of the commons (economics)
公子哥儿	gong	r	pampered son of a wealthy family
公孙起	gong	qi	Gongsun Qi (-258 BC), famous general of Qin 秦國|秦国, the victor at 長平|长平 in 260 BC; same as Bai Qi 白起
公孙龙	gong	long	Gongsun Long (c. 325-250 BC), leading thinker of the School of Logicians of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
公安县	gong	xian	Gong'an, a county in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
公安官员	gong	yuan	public safety officials
公安局	gong	ju	public security bureau (government office similar in function to a police station)
公安机关	gong	guan	public security bureau
公安部	gong	bu	Ministry of Public Security
公家机关	gong	guan	civil service
公寓大楼	gong	lou	apartment building
公寓楼	gong	lou	apartment building; CL:座[zuo4]
公对公	gong	gong	B2B; business-to-business; (of a connector) male-to-male
公布栏	gong	lan	bulletin board
公平交易	gong	yi	fair dealing
公平合理	gong	li	fair; equitable
公平审判权	gong	quan	the right to a fair trial
公平竞争	gong	zheng	fair competition
公平贸易	gong	yi	fair trade
公开信	gong	xin	open letter
公开化	gong	hua	to make public; to bring into the open
公开讨论会	gong	hui	open forum
公开赛	gong	sai	(sports) open championship; open (as in "the US Open")
公式化	gong	hua	to formalize; formalism in art (esp. as proscribed in USSR and PRC)
公德心	gong	xin	civility; public spirit
公报私仇	gong	chou	to use public office to avenge private wrongs
公文包	gong	bao	briefcase; attaché case
公有制	gong	zhi	public ownership
公有化	gong	hua	to nationalize; to take over as communal property
公检法	gong	fa	public security authorities, acronym from 公安局[gong1 an1 ju2], 檢察院|检察院[jian3 cha2 yuan4] and 法院[fa3 yuan4]
公母俩	gong	lia	husband and wife
公民义务	gong	wu	civil obligation; a citizen's duty
公民投票	gong	piao	plebiscite; referendum
公民权	gong	quan	civil rights; citizenship rights
公民权利	gong	li	civil rights
公民社会	gong	hui	civil society
公民表决	gong	jue	referendum; decided by public vote
公然表示	gong	shi	to state openly
公爵夫人	gong	ren	duchess
公猪异味	gong	wei	boar taint, the taste or odor of sweat or urine in pork from uncastrated pigs
公理法	gong	fa	the axiomatic method
公用交换电话网	gong	wang	(Tw) public switched telephone network (PSTN)
公用电话	gong	hua	public phone; CL:部[bu4]
公益事业	gong	ye	service to the public; public welfare undertaking; charity
公益活动	gong	dong	charity event; public service activities
公益金	gong	jin	public welfare funds; community chest
公私兼顾	gong	gu	to adequately take into account both public and private interests
公私合营	gong	ying	joint public private operation
公租房	gong	fang	public housing
公积金	gong	jin	official reserves; accumulated fund
公立学校	gong	xiao	public school
公筷母匙	gong	chi	(Tw) serving chopsticks and serving spoons used in communal dining to promote hygiene
公约数	gong	shu	(math.) common factor; common divisor
公羊传	gong	zhuan	Mr Gongyang's Annals or commentary on 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], early history, probably written by multiple authors during Han dynasty, same as 公羊春秋[Gong1 yang2 Chun1 qiu1]
公羊春秋	gong	qiu	Mr Gongyang's Annals or commentary on 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], early history, probably written during Han dynasty, same as 公羊傳|公羊传[Gong1 yang2 Zhuan4]
公而忘私	gong	si	for the common good and forgetting personal interests (idiom); to behave altruistically; selfless
公职人员	gong	yuan	civil servant
公营企业	gong	ye	public enterprise, as opposed to private enterprise 私營企業|私营企业[si1 ying2 qi3 ye4]
公营经济	gong	ji	the public sector of the economy
公设比	gong	bi	(Tw) shared-facilities ratio (expressed as a percentage of the total floor space of a building)
公证人	gong	ren	notary; actuary
公证处	gong	chu	notary office
公诉人	gong	ren	district attorney; public prosecutor; procurator
公诸于世	gong	shi	to announce to the world (idiom); to make public; to let everyone know
公诸同好	gong	hao	to share pleasure in the company of others (idiom); shared enjoyment with fellow enthusiasts
公费医疗	gong	liao	medical treatment at public expense
公路网	gong	wang	road network
公路自行车	gong	che	racing bicycle; road bike
公路赛	gong	sai	road race
公路车	gong	che	racing bicycle (abbr. for 公路自行車|公路自行车[gong1 lu4 zi4 xing2 che1])
六一儿童节	liu	jie	Children's Day (June 1st), PRC national holiday for children under 14
六二五事变	liu	bian	Korean War (dating from North Korean invasion on 25th Jun 1950)
六二五战争	liu	zheng	the Korean War (started June 25 1950)
六亲不认	liu	ren	not recognizing one's family (idiom); self-centered and not making any allowances for the needs of one's relatives
六亲无靠	liu	kao	orphaned of all one's immediate relatives (idiom); no one to rely on; left to one's own devices
六公主	liu	zhu	nickname for CCTV-6 (China Movie Channel)
六分之一	liu	yi	one sixth
六分仪	liu	yi	sextant
六分仪座	liu	zuo	Sextans (constellation)
六十四卦	liu	gua	the 64 hexagrams of the Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1]
六十年代	liu	dai	the sixties; the 1960s
六合八法	liu	fa	Liuhe Bafa - "Six Harmonies, Eight Methods" - Martial Art
六合区	lu	qu	Luhe, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
六合彩	liu	cai	Mark Six (Hong Kong lotto game)
六四事件	liu	jian	Tiananmen Incident of June 4, 1989
六块腹肌	liu	ji	six-pack (abs)
六字真言	liu	yan	the six-syllable Sanskrit mantra of Avalokiteshvara bodhisattva (i.e. om mani padme hum)
六安市	lu	shi	Lu'an, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
六扇门	liu	men	seat of the government; yamen; (in wuxia stories) special police force
六方会谈	liu	tan	Six-Party Talks (2003–2007) on North Korea's nuclear program, involving China, the US, North Korea, South Korea, Japan and Russia
六方最密堆积	liu	ji	hexagonal close-packed (HCP) (math.)
六日战争	liu	zheng	the Six-Day War of June 1967 between Israel and its Arab neighbors
六月份	liu	fen	June
六朝四大家	liu	jia	Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties, namely: Cao Buxing 曹不興|曹不兴[Cao2 Bu4 xing1], Gu Kaizhi 顧愷之|顾恺之[Gu4 Kai3 zhi1], Lu Tanwei 陸探微|陆探微[Lu4 Tan4 wei1] and Zhang Sengyou 張僧繇|张僧繇[Zhang1 Seng1 you2]
六朝时代	liu	dai	the Six Dynasties period (222-589) between Han and Tang
六枝特区	liu	qu	Liuzhi Special District, a district of Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
六氟化硫	liu	liu	sulfur hexafluoride
六氟化铀	liu	you	uranium hexafluoride (UF6)
六环路	liu	lu	Sixth ring road (Beijing), opened in 2008
六盘山	liu	shan	Liupan Mountains, mountain range in northern China
六盘水	liu	shui	see 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4]
六盘水市	liu	shi	Liupanshui, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
六碳糖	liu	tang	hexose (CH2O)6, monosaccharide with six carbon atoms, such as glucose 葡萄糖[pu2 tao5 tang2]
六神无主	liu	zhu	out of one's wits (idiom); distracted; stunned
六级士官	liu	guan	sergeant major
六芒星	liu	xing	six-pointed star; hexagram
六角形	liu	xing	hexagon
六角括号	liu	hao	tortoise shell brackets 〔〕
六角星	liu	xing	six-pointed star; hexagram
六角螺帽	liu	mao	hexagonal nut
六边形	liu	xing	hexagon
六面体	liu	ti	hexahedron
六韬三略	liu	lve	"Six Secret Strategic Teachings" 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1] and "Three Strategies of Huang Shigong" 三略[San1 lu:e4], two of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], attributed to Jiang Ziya 姜子牙[Jiang1 Zi3 ya2]
兰博基尼	lan	ni	Lamborghini (Italian car manufacturer)
兰因絮果	lan	guo	starts well but ends in separation (of marital relations)
兰坪县	lan	xian	see 蘭坪白族普米族自治縣|兰坪白族普米族自治县[Lan2 ping2 Bai2 zu2 Pu3 mi3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
兰姆打	lan	da	lambda (Greek letter Λλ)
兰姆达	lan	da	lambda (Greek letter Λλ)
兰姆酒	lan	jiu	rum (beverage) (loanword)
兰山区	lan	qu	Lanshan, a district of Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
兰州大学	lan	xue	Lanzhou University
兰州市	lan	shi	Lanzhou, prefecture-level city and capital of Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
兰开夏郡	lan	jun	Lancashire (English county)
兰开斯特	lan	te	Lancaster
兰摧玉折	lan	zhe	premature death of a budding talent; those whom the Gods love die young
兰斯洛特	lan	te	Lancelot (name)
兰新铁路	lan	lu	Lanzhou-Xinjiang railway
兰溪市	lan	shi	Lanxi, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
兰考县	lan	xian	Lankao, a county in Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
兰艾同焚	lan	fen	lit. to burn both fragrant orchids and stinking weeds (idiom); fig. to destroy indiscriminately the noble and common; the rain falls on the just and unjust alike
兰花指	lan	zhi	hand gesture in traditional dances (joined thumb and middle finger, the rest extended)
兰花豆	lan	dou	savory fried fava beans
兰西县	lan	xian	Lanxi, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
兰迪斯	lan	si	Landis (name)
兰郑长成品油管道	lan	dao	Lanzhou-Zhengzhou-Changsha oil pipeline
兰郑长管道	lan	dao	Lanzhou-Zhengzhou-Changsha oil pipeline
兰陵县	lan	xian	Lanling, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
兰陵笑笑生	lan	sheng	Lanling Xiaoxiaosheng, pseudonym of the Ming dynasty writer and author of the Golden Lotus 金瓶梅[Jin1 ping2 mei2]
共产主义	gong	yi	communism
共产主义青年团	gong	tuan	the Communist Youth League
共产党	gong	dang	Communist Party
共产党员	gong	yuan	Communist Party member
共产党宣言	gong	yan	Manifesto of the Communist Party; "Manifest der Kommunistischen Partei" by Marx and Engels (1848)
共产国际	gong	ji	Communist International or Comintern (1919-1943), also known as the Third International 第三國際|第三国际[Di4 san1 Guo2 ji4]
共享函数库	gong	ku	shared library (computing)
共享带宽	gong	kuan	shared bandwidth
共享库	gong	ku	shared library (computing)
共享程序库	gong	ku	shared library (computing)
共享计划	gong	hua	joint project; partnership
共享软体	gong	ti	shareware
共价键	gong	jian	covalent bond (chemistry)
共刺激	gong	ji	(immunology) costimulation; costimulatory
共同主持人	gong	ren	(Tw) (in a research project) co-principal investigator, or co-PI
共同体	gong	ti	community
共同利益	gong	yi	common interest; mutual benefit
共同基金	gong	jin	mutual fund
共同点	gong	dian	common ground
共同社	gong	she	Kyōdō, Japanese news agency
共同纲领	gong	ling	common program; formal program of the communist party after 1949, that served as interim national plan
共和党	gong	dang	Republican Party
共和党人	gong	ren	a Republican party member
共和制	gong	zhi	republic
共和县	gong	xian	Gonghe, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
共和国	gong	guo	republic
共和政体	gong	ti	republican system of government
共和派	gong	pai	Republican faction
共商大计	gong	ji	to discuss matters of vital importance
共存性	gong	xing	compatibility; the possibility of mutual coexistence
共建房	gong	fang	co-op owned house
共患难	gong	nan	to go through hardship together
共模抑制比	gong	bi	(electronics) common-mode rejection ratio (CMRR)
共济会	gong	hui	Freemasonry
共行车道	gong	dao	carpool lane
共襄善举	gong	ju	to cooperate in a charity project
共襄盛举	gong	ju	to cooperate on a great undertaking or joint project
共谋罪	gong	zui	conspiracy
共谋者	gong	zhe	conspirator
共轭不尽根	gong	gen	(math.) conjugate surd
共轭复数	gong	shu	(math.) complex conjugate
共通性	gong	xing	commonality; universality
共青团	gong	tuan	the Communist Youth League, abbr. for 共產主義青年團|共产主义青年团[Gong4 chan3 zhu3 yi4 Qing1 nian2 tuan2]
共青城	gong	cheng	see 共青城市[Gong4 qing1 cheng2 Shi4]
共青城市	gong	shi	Gongqingcheng, a county-level city in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
关东军	guan	jun	Japanese Kwantung army (or Kantō army), notorious for numerous atrocities in China during WWII
关东地震	guan	zhen	Kantō earthquake of 1923, magnitude 8.2, that killed 200,000 people in the Tokyo area
关东煮	guan	zhu	oden, Japanese dish made with boiled eggs, processed fish cakes, daikon radish, tofu etc in a kelp-based broth
关中地区	guan	qu	Guanzhong Plain in Shaanxi
关中平原	guan	yuan	Guanzhong Plain in Shaanxi
关之琳	guan	lin	Rosamund Kwan (1962-), Hong Kong actress
关云长	guan	chang	courtesy name of 關羽|关羽[Guan1 Yu3]
关你屁事	guan	shi	(coll.) None of your goddamn business!; Mind your own business!
关公面前耍大刀	guan	dao	lit. to wield the broadsword in the presence of Lord Guan (idiom); fig. to make a fool of oneself by showing off in front of an expert
关关难过关关过	guan	guo	to meet with great difficulties but pull through
关塔纳摩	guan	mo	Guantanamo, Cuba
关塔那摩	guan	mo	Guantanamo
关塔那摩湾	guan	wan	Guantanamo Bay (in Cuba)
关岛大学	guan	xue	University of Guam
关岭县	guan	xian	see 關嶺布依族苗族自治縣|关岭布依族苗族自治县[Guan1 ling3 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
关店歇业	guan	ye	to close up shop and cease business temporarily; closed for business
关怀备至	guan	zhi	the utmost care (idiom); to look after sb in every possible way
关栈费	guan	fei	bonding fee
关汉卿	guan	qing	Guan Hanqing (c. 1235-c. 1300), Yuan dynasty dramatist in the 雜劇|杂剧 tradition of musical comedy, one of the Four Great Yuan dramatists 元曲四大家
关禁闭	guan	bi	to put in detention (a soldier, a pupil)
关税与贸易总协定	guan	ding	GATT, the 1995 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
关税同盟	guan	meng	customs union
关税国境	guan	jing	customs border
关税壁垒	guan	lei	tariff wall
关系代名词	guan	ci	relative pronoun
关系到	guan	dao	relates to; bears upon
关系式	guan	shi	equation expressing a relation (math.)
关系户	guan	hu	a connection (sb with whom one has dealings on the basis of "scratch my back and I'll scratch yours")
关系网	guan	wang	network of people with whom one has dealings on the basis of "scratch my back and I'll scratch yours"
关联公司	guan	si	related company; affiliate
关联词	guan	ci	(grammar) a connective; a conjunction
关节囊	guan	nang	articular capsule (of joint such as knee in anatomy)
关节炎	guan	yan	arthritis
关节腔	guan	qiang	articular cavity; joint cavity
关节面	guan	mian	articular facet (anatomy); surface in joint
关贸总协定	guan	ding	GATT, the 1995 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade
关金券	guan	quan	Chinese customs gold unit, currency used in China between 1930 and 1948
关键字	guan	zi	keyword
关键绩效指标	guan	biao	key performance indicator (KPI)
关键词	guan	ci	keyword
关门兔	guan	tu	(sports) (coll.) sweeper (in a running event)
关门大吉	guan	ji	to close down a business for good and put the best face on it (idiom)
关门弟子	guan	zi	last disciple of a master
关门打狗	guan	gou	lit. shut the door and beat the dog (idiom); fig. seal off the enemy's avenue of retreat, then strike hard
关门捉贼	guan	zei	to catch a thief by closing his escape route (idiom)
关颖珊	guan	shan	Michelle Kwan (1980-), former American figure skater, Olympic medalist
兴业县	xing	xian	Xingye, a county in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
兴业银行	xing	hang	Société Générale
兴中会	xing	hui	Revive China Society, founded by Dr Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山 in 1894 in Honolulu
兴义市	xing	shi	Xingyi, a county-level city in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
兴仁市	xing	shi	Xingren, a county-level city in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
兴冲冲	xing	chong	full of joy and expectations; animatedly
兴凯刺鳑鲏	xing	pi	Acanthorhodeus chankaensis (small carp)
兴利除弊	xing	bi	to promote what is useful and get rid of what is harmful (idiom)
兴化市	xing	shi	Xinghua, a county-level city in Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
兴和县	xing	xian	Xinghe, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
兴国县	xing	xian	Xingguo, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
兴城市	xing	shi	Xingcheng, a county-level city in Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
兴奋剂	xing	ji	stimulant; doping (in athletics)
兴奋高潮	xing	chao	peak of excitement; orgasm
兴妖作怪	xing	guai	lit. to summon demons to create havoc (idiom); fig. to stir up all kinds of trouble
兴宁区	xing	qu	Xingning, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
兴宁市	xing	shi	Xingning, a county-level city in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
兴安区	xing	qu	Xing'an, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
兴安县	xing	xian	Xing'an, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
兴安盟	xing	meng	Hinggan, league in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
兴安运河	xing	he	another name for Lingqu 靈渠|灵渠[Ling2 qu2], canal in Xing'an county 興安|兴安[Xing1 an1], Guangxi
兴宾区	xing	qu	Xingbin, a district of Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
兴山区	xing	qu	Xingshan, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
兴山县	xing	xian	Xingshan, a county in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
兴师动众	xing	zhong	to muster large forces; to get a great number of people involved (in carrying out some task)
兴师问罪	xing	zui	to send punitive forces against; (fig.) to criticize violently
兴平市	xing	shi	Xingping, a county-level city in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
兴庆区	xing	qu	Xingqing, a district of Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
兴文县	xing	xian	Xingwen, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
兴旺发达	xing	da	prosperous and developing; flourishing
兴海县	xing	xian	Xinghai, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
兴灭继绝	xing	jue	lit. to restore the state and revive old families (idiom); fig. to restore sth that has been destroyed or forgotten
兴致勃勃	xing	bo	to become exhilarated (idiom); in high spirits; full of zest
兴都库什	xing	shi	the Hindu Kush (mountain range)
兴隆县	xing	xian	Xinglong, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
兴隆台	xing	tai	see 興隆臺區|兴隆台区[Xing1 long2 tai2 Qu1]
兴隆台区	xing	qu	Xinglongtai, a district of Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
兴风作浪	xing	lang	to incite trouble; to stir up havoc
兴高彩烈	xing	lie	variant of 興高采烈|兴高采烈[xing4 gao1 cai3 lie4]
兴高采烈	xing	lie	happy and excited (idiom); in high spirits; in great delight
兵不厌诈	bing	zha	(idiom) deception is justified in war
兵不血刃	bing	ren	lit. no blood on the men's swords (idiom); fig. an effortless victory
兵临城下	bing	xia	soldiers at the city walls (idiom); fig. at a critical juncture
兵器术	bing	shu	martial arts involving weapons
兵家常事	bing	shi	commonplace in military operations (idiom)
兵工厂	bing	chang	munitions factory
兵强马壮	bing	zhuang	lit. strong soldiers and sturdy horses (idiom); fig. a well-trained and powerful army
兵戈扰攘	bing	rang	arms and confusion (idiom); turmoil of war
兵戎相见	bing	jian	to meet on the battlefield (idiom)
兵来将挡水来土掩	bing	yan	counter soldiers with arms, water with an earth weir (idiom); different situations call for different action; to adopt measures appropriate to the actual situation
兵来将敌水来土堰	bing	yan	counter soldiers with arms, water with an earth weir (idiom); different situations call for different action; to adopt measures appropriate to the actual situation
兵棋推演	bing	yan	war-gaming; simulation of a military operation
兵精粮足	bing	zu	elite soldiers, ample provisions (idiom); well-prepared forces; preparations for war are in an advanced state
兵荒马乱	bing	luan	(idiom) war-torn; ravaged by war; in a state of utter chaos
兵败如山倒	bing	dao	troops in defeat like a landslide (idiom); a beaten army in total collapse
兵贵神速	bing	su	lit. speed is a crucial asset in war (idiom); fig. swift and resolute (in doing sth)
兵连祸结	bing	jie	ravaged by successive wars; war-torn; war-ridden
兵马俑	bing	yong	figurines of warriors and horses buried with the dead; Terracotta Army (historic site)
兵马未动粮草先行	bing	xing	before the troops move, fodder and provisions go first (idiom); logistics comes before military maneuvers; an army marches on its stomach
其乐不穷	qi	qiong	boundless joy
其乐无穷	qi	qiong	boundless joy
其乐融融	qi	rong	(of relations) joyous and harmonious
其来有自	qi	zi	there is a reason for it; (of sth) not incidental
其自身	qi	shen	one's own (respective); proprietary
其貌不扬	qi	yang	(idiom) nothing special to look at; unprepossessing
具体到	ju	dao	to embody into; to apply to; to take the shape of
具体化	ju	hua	to concretize
具体而微	ju	wei	miniature; scaled-down; forming a microcosm
具体计划	ju	hua	a concrete plan; a definite plan
具体问题	ju	ti	concrete issue
具身智能	ju	neng	embodied AI
典型化	dian	hua	stereotype; exemplar; typification
典型用途	dian	tu	typical use; typical application
典型登革热	dian	re	dengue fever
典当行	dian	hang	pawnshop
典狱长	dian	zhang	prison warden
兹事体大	zi	da	this is no small thing (idiom); to have a serious matter at hand
兹卡病毒	zi	du	(Tw) Zika virus
兹沃勒	zi	le	Zwolle (Netherlands)
养乐多	yang	duo	Yakult (Japanese brand of fermented milk drink)
养儿防老	yang	lao	(of parents) to bring up children for the purpose of being looked after in old age
养兵千日用兵一时	yang	shi	lit. Train an army for a thousand days to use it for an hour. (idiom); fig. extensive preparation eventually pays off
养兵千日用在一时	yang	shi	see 養兵千日，用兵一時|养兵千日，用兵一时[yang3 bing1 qian1 ri4 , yong4 bing1 yi1 shi2]
养兵千日用在一朝	yang	zhao	lit. train an army for a thousand days to use it for one morning (idiom); fig. extensive preparation eventually pays off
养家活口	yang	kou	to support one's family (idiom)
养家糊口	yang	kou	(idiom) to provide for one's family
养尊处优	yang	you	to live like a prince (idiom)
养殖业	yang	ye	cultivation industry
养殖场	yang	chang	livestock or aquaculture farm
养生之道	yang	dao	the way of maintaining good health
养生法	yang	fa	regime (diet)
养生送死	yang	si	to be looked after in life and given a proper burial thereafter (idiom)
养痈贻患	yang	huan	variant of 養癰遺患|养痈遗患[yang3 yong1 yi2 huan4]
养痈遗患	yang	huan	lit. to foster an ulcer and bequeath a calamity (idiom); tolerating budding evil can only lead to disaster; to cherish a viper in one's bosom
养精蓄锐	yang	rui	to preserve and nurture one's spirit (idiom); honing one's strength for the big push
养老保险	yang	xian	old-age insurance
养老送终	yang	zhong	to look after one's aged parents and arrange proper burial after they die
养老金	yang	jin	pension
养老金双轨制	yang	zhi	(PRC) dual-track pension system (with separate schemes for public-sector and enterprise employees)
养老院	yang	yuan	nursing home
养虎为患	yang	huan	lit. to nurture a tiger invites calamity; fig. to indulge one's enemy is asking for trouble (idiom)
养虎伤身	yang	shen	Rear a tiger and court disaster. (idiom); fig. if you're too lenient with sb, he will damage you later; to cherish a snake in one's bosom
养虎遗患	yang	huan	Rear a tiger and court disaster. (idiom); fig. if you're too lenient with sb, he will damage you later; to cherish a snake in one's bosom
养蚕业	yang	ye	silk industry
养蜂业	yang	ye	beekeeping; apiculture
养蜂人	yang	ren	beekeeper; apiculturist
养路费	yang	fei	road maintenance tax (China)
养鱼池	yang	chi	fishpond
养鱼缸	yang	gang	aquarium; fish tank
养鸡场	yang	chang	chicken farm
兼听则明偏信则暗	jian	an	listen to both sides and you will be enlightened; heed only one side and you will remain ignorant (idiom)
兼善天下	jian	xia	(idiom) to work for the common good beyond one's own interests
兼容并包	jian	bao	to include and monopolize many things; all-embracing
兼容性	jian	xing	compatibility
兼并与收购	jian	gou	mergers and acquisitions (M&A)
兼收并蓄	jian	xu	incorporating diverse things (idiom); eclectic; all-embracing
兼济天下	jian	xia	(idiom) to make everyone's lives better
兼而有之	jian	zhi	to have both (at the same time)
兽力车	shou	che	animal-drawn vehicle; carriage
兽医学	shou	xue	veterinary medicine; veterinary science
兽病理学	shou	xue	veterinary pathology
兽脚亚目	shou	mu	suborder Theropoda (beast-footed dinosaur group) within order Saurischia containing carnivorous dinosaurs
兽脚类恐龙	shou	long	theropod (beast-footed dinosaur group); suborder Theropoda within order Saurischia containing carnivorous dinosaurs
冀州区	ji	qu	Jizhou, a district of Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
冀朝铸	ji	zhu	Ji Chaozhu (1929-2020), Chinese diplomat
内丘县	nei	xian	Neiqiu, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
内乡县	nei	xian	Neixiang, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
内八字脚	nei	jiao	intoeing; pigeon toes; knock-knees
内六角圆柱头螺钉	nei	ding	hexagon socket head cap screw
内六角扳手	nei	shou	Allen key; hex key
内出血	nei	xue	internal bleeding; internal hemorrhage
内分泌	nei	mi	endocrine (internal secretion, e.g. hormone)
内分泌腺	nei	xian	endocrine gland
内切球	nei	qiu	inside cut (golf); (math.) inscribed sphere; insphere
内务府	nei	fu	Imperial Household Department (in Qing dynasty)
内务部	nei	bu	Ministry of Internal Affairs
内华达	nei	da	Nevada, US state
内卡河	nei	he	Neckar River in Germany
内啡素	nei	su	endorphin
内啡肽	nei	tai	endorphin
内在几何	nei	he	intrinsic geometry
内在几何学	nei	xue	intrinsic geometry
内在坐标	nei	biao	(geometry) intrinsic coordinates
内在美	nei	mei	inner beauty
内在超越	nei	yue	inner transcendence (perfection through one's own inner moral cultivation, as in Confucianism, for example)
内塔尼亚胡	nei	hu	Netanyahu (name); Benjamin Netanyahu (1949-), Israeli Likud politician, prime minister 1996-1999 and from 2009
内外兼修	nei	xiu	(of a person) beautiful inside and out
内存储器	nei	qi	(computing) main memory; RAM
内容管理系统	nei	tong	content management system (CMS) (Internet)
内容量	nei	liang	net contents
内布拉斯加	nei	jia	Nebraska, US state
内幕交易	nei	yi	insider trading; insider dealing
内心世界	nei	jie	(one's) inner world
内心戏	nei	xi	psychological drama
内心深处	nei	chu	deep in one's heart
内忧外困	nei	kun	internal trouble and outside aggression (idiom); in a mess both domestically and abroad
内忧外患	nei	huan	internal trouble and outside aggression (idiom); in a mess both domestically and abroad
内搭裤	nei	ku	leggings (Tw)
内政部	nei	bu	Ministry of the Interior
内政部警政署	nei	shu	National Police Agency (Tw)
内政部长	nei	zhang	Minister of the Interior
内斜视	nei	shi	(medicine) esotropia; cross-eye
内比都	nei	du	Naypyidaw or Nay Pyi Taw, capital of Myanmar
内江市	nei	shi	Neijiang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
内流河	nei	he	inward flowing river; river flowing into desert or salt lake, e.g. Tarim river 塔里木河
内涵意义	nei	yi	(semantics) connotative meaning; connotation
内湖区	nei	qu	Neihu District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
内燃机	nei	ji	internal combustion engine
内燃机车	nei	che	diesel locomotive
内爆法原子弹	nei	dan	implosion atomic bomb
内省性	nei	xing	introversion; introspective
内眼角	nei	jiao	inner corner of the eye
内科医生	nei	sheng	medical doctor; physician who works primarily by administering drugs, as opposed to surgeon 外科醫生|外科医生[wai4 ke1 yi1 sheng1]
内科学	nei	xue	internal medicine
内窥镜	nei	jing	endoscope
内线交易	nei	yi	insider trading
内线消息	nei	xi	inside information
内细胞团	nei	tuan	inner cell mass (ICM)
内罗毕	nei	bi	Nairobi, capital of Kenya
内耳道	nei	dao	internal auditory meatus (canal in temporal bone of skull housing auditory nerves)
内联网	nei	wang	intranet
内胚层	nei	ceng	endoderm (cell lineage in embryology)
内营力	nei	li	internal force; endogenic force
内蒙古	nei	gu	see 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
内蒙古大学	nei	xue	Inner Mongolia University
内蒙古自治区	nei	qu	Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region, capital Hohhot 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4] (short name 蒙[Meng3])
内衣裤	nei	ku	underwear
内视镜	nei	jing	endoscope
内质网	nei	wang	endoplasmic reticulum (ER)
内贾德	nei	de	Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (1956-), Iranian fundamentalist politician, president of Iran 2005-2013; abbr. for 艾哈邁迪內賈德|艾哈迈迪内贾德
内部事务	nei	wu	internal affairs
内部斗争	nei	zheng	internal power struggle
内部矛盾	nei	dun	internal contradiction
内部网	nei	wang	intranet
内酰胺酶	nei	mei	beta-lactamase (a bacterial inhibitor)
内野手	nei	shou	(baseball) infielder
内阁总理大臣	nei	chen	formal title of the Japanese prime minister
内陆国	nei	guo	landlocked country
内陆河	nei	he	inland river; river draining to inland sea
内飞地	nei	di	exclave (our land inside them); (Tw) enclave (foreign land embedded in us)
内黄县	nei	xian	Neihuang, a county in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
冈上肌	gang	ji	supraspinatus muscle
冈下肌	gang	ji	infraspinatus muscle
冈仁波齐	gang	qi	Mt Gang Rinpoche in Tibet; also called Mount Kailash
冈仁波齐峰	gang	feng	Mount Gang Rinpoche or Mount Kailash (6,638 m) in Tibet
冈山区	gang	qu	Gangshan District in Kaohsiung, Taiwan
冈底斯山	gang	shan	Mt Gangdisê (6656m) in southwest Tibet, revered by Tibetans as the center of the universe
冈底斯山脉	gang	mai	Gangdisê mountain range in southwest Tibet
冈比亚	gang	ya	Gambia
冉冉上升	ran	sheng	to ascend slowly
册亨县	ce	xian	Ceheng, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
册府元龟	ce	gui	Prime tortoise of the record bureau, Song dynasty historical encyclopedia of political essays, autobiography, memorials and decrees, compiled 1005-1013 under Wang Qinruo 王欽若|王钦若 and Yang Yi 楊億|杨亿, 1000 scrolls
再一次	zai	ci	again
再三再四	zai	si	repeatedly; over and over again
再不然	zai	ran	otherwise; alternatively; or else
再保证	zai	zheng	to reassure
再保险	zai	xian	reinsurance (contractual device spreading risk between insurers)
再制盐	zai	yan	refined salt
再制纸	zai	zhi	recycled paper
再处理	zai	li	reprocessing
再好不过	zai	guo	couldn't be better; ideal; wonderful
再就是	zai	shi	another one is ...; the other thing is ...
再平衡	zai	heng	to rebalance
再怎么	zai	me	no matter how ...
再接再厉	zai	li	to continue the struggle (idiom); to persist; unremitting efforts
再接再砺	zai	li	variant of 再接再厲|再接再厉[zai4 jie1 zai4 li4]
再生不良性贫血	zai	xue	aplastic anemia
再生产	zai	chan	to reproduce; reproduction
再生制动	zai	dong	regenerative braking
再生医学	zai	xue	regenerative medicine
再生水	zai	shui	reclaimed water; recycled water
再生燃料	zai	liao	renewable fuel
再生父母	zai	mu	like a second parent (idiom); one's great benefactor
再生稻	zai	dao	ratoon rice; rice plants that regrow from stubble after the first harvest, yielding a second crop
再生能源	zai	yuan	renewable energy source
再生资源	zai	yuan	renewable resource
再融资	zai	zi	refinancing; restructuring (a loan)
再衰三竭	zai	jie	weakening and close to exhaustion (idiom); in terminal decline; on one's last legs
再见全垒打	zai	da	walk-off home run
再造手术	zai	shu	reconstructive surgery
冒冒失失	mao	shi	bold; forthright
冒出来	mao	lai	to emerge; to pop up; to spring forth; to appear from nowhere
冒名顶替	mao	ti	to assume sb's name and take his place (idiom); to impersonate; to pose under a false name
冒名顶替者	mao	zhe	impersonator; impostor
冒大不韪	mao	wei	(idiom) to face opprobrium
冒天下之大不韪	mao	wei	see 冒大不韙|冒大不韪[mao4 da4 bu4 wei3]
冒失鬼	mao	gui	reckless person; hothead
冒牌货	mao	huo	fake goods; imitation; forgery
冒生命危险	mao	xian	to risk one's life
冒纳罗亚	mao	ya	Moanalua, Hawaiian volcano
冒险主义	mao	yi	adventurism (a left-wing error against Mao's line during the 1930s)
冒险家	mao	jia	adventurer
冒险者	mao	zhe	adventurer
冒风险	mao	xian	to take risks
冕宁县	mian	xian	Mianning, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
冕柳莺	mian	ying	(bird species of China) eastern crowned warbler (Phylloscopus coronatus)
冗赘词	rong	ci	expletive (linguistics)
冗长度	rong	du	(level of) redundancy
冗长辩论	rong	lun	filibuster
写字台	xie	tai	writing desk
写字板	xie	ban	writing tablet; clipboard
写字楼	xie	lou	office building
写意画	xie	hua	freehand drawing or painting in traditional Chinese style
写真集	xie	ji	photobook (loanword from Japanese), generally sexy portraits of an actress or model
军乐团	jun	tuan	military band
军乐队	jun	dui	military band
军事体育	jun	yu	military sports; military fitness (curriculum etc); abbr. to 軍體|军体
军事力量	jun	liang	military strength; military force(s)
军事化	jun	hua	militarization
军事基地	jun	di	military base
军事威胁	jun	xie	military threat
军事学	jun	xue	military science
军事实力	jun	li	military strength; military power
军事家	jun	jia	military expert; general
军事工业	jun	ye	defense industry
军事情报	jun	bao	military intelligence
军事援助	jun	zhu	military aid
军事政变	jun	bian	military coup
军事机构	jun	gou	military institution
军事法庭	jun	ting	court-martial; military tribunal
军事演习	jun	xi	military exercise; war game
军事科学	jun	xue	military science
军事行动	jun	dong	military operation
军事训练	jun	lian	military exercise; army drill
军事设施	jun	shi	military installations
军事部门	jun	men	military branch
军令如山	jun	shan	military orders are like mountains (idiom); a military order must be obeyed
军令状	jun	zhuang	military order
军公教	jun	jiao	army, civil service and education; all branches of state employment
军分区	jun	qu	military subdistricts
军功章	jun	zhang	military medal
军医院	jun	yuan	military hospital
军团杆菌	jun	jun	legionella bacteria
军团菌	jun	jun	legionella (bacterium causing legionnaires' disease)
军团菌病	jun	bing	legionnaires' disease
军国主义	jun	yi	militarism
军备竞赛	jun	sai	arms race; armament(s) race
军委会	jun	hui	Military Commission of the Communist Party Central Committee; same as 軍委|军委
军工复合体	jun	ti	military-industrial complex
军情五处	jun	chu	MI5 (British military counterintelligence office)
军情六处	jun	chu	MI6 (British military intelligence agency)
军政府	jun	fu	military government
军曹鱼	jun	yu	cobia or black kingfish (Rachycentron canadum)
军机处	jun	chu	Office of Military and Political Affairs (Qing Dynasty)
军火交易	jun	yi	arms deal
军火公司	jun	si	arms company
军火库	jun	ku	arsenal
军费开支	jun	zhi	military spending
军阀混战	jun	zhan	incessant fighting between warlords
军需官	jun	guan	quartermaster
农业区	nong	qu	agricultural region
农业厅	nong	ting	(provincial) department of agriculture
农业合作化	nong	hua	collectivization of agriculture (in Marxist theory)
农业国	nong	guo	agricultural country
农业机械	nong	xie	agricultural machinery
农业现代化	nong	hua	modernization of agriculture, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
农业生产合作社	nong	she	agricultural producers' cooperative
农业生技	nong	ji	(Tw) agricultural biotechnology; agritech
农业部	nong	bu	Ministry of Agriculture; Department of Agriculture
农业集体化	nong	hua	collectivization of agriculture (under communism)
农事活动	nong	dong	agricultural activities
农产品	nong	pin	agricultural produce
农作物	nong	wu	(farm) crops
农历新年	nong	nian	Chinese New Year; Lunar New Year
农夫山泉	nong	quan	Nongfu Spring, Chinese bottled water and beverage company
农奴解放日	nong	ri	Serf Liberation Day (PRC)
农安县	nong	xian	Nong'an, a county in Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
农家乐	nong	le	a property providing rural accommodation (farm stay, boutique hotel etc)
农家庭院	nong	yuan	farmyard
农家肥	nong	fei	manure
农德孟	nong	meng	Nong Duc Manh (1940-), general secretary of the Vietnamese Communist Party 2001-2011
农村合作化	nong	hua	collectivization of agriculture (in Marxist theory)
农林水产省	nong	sheng	Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (Japan)
农民党	nong	dang	Peasant Party (Republic of China)
农民工	nong	gong	migrant worker (who moved from a rural area of China to a city to find work)
农民起义	nong	yi	peasant uprising; peasant revolt
农民阶级	nong	ji	peasant class (esp. in Marxist theory); peasantry
农贸市场	nong	chang	wet market
农运会	nong	hui	China National Farmers' Games (sports meeting for peasants held every 4 years since 1988)
冠冕堂皇	guan	huang	high-sounding; dignified; pompous (idiom)
冠军赛	guan	sai	championship
冠形词	guan	ci	article (in grammar)
冠心病	guan	bing	coronary heart disease
冠斑犀鸟	guan	niao	(bird species of China) oriental pied hornbill (Anthracoceros albirostris)
冠海雀	guan	que	(bird species of China) Japanese murrelet (Synthliboramphus wumizusume)
冠状动脉	guan	mai	coronary artery
冠状动脉旁通手术	guan	shu	coronary bypass operation
冠状病毒	guan	du	coronavirus
冠纹柳莺	guan	ying	(bird species of China) Claudia's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus claudiae)
冠脉循环	guan	huan	coronary circulation
冠鱼狗	guan	gou	(bird species of China) crested kingfisher (Megaceryle lugubris)
冠麻鸭	guan	ya	(bird species of China) crested shelduck (Tadorna cristata)
冢中枯骨	zhong	gu	dried bones in burial mound (idiom); dead and buried
冤假错案	yuan	an	unjust, fake and false charges (in a legal case)
冤冤相报何时了	yuan	liao	if revenge breeds revenge, will there ever be an end to it? (Buddhist saying)
冤大头	yuan	tou	spendthrift and foolish; sb with more money than sense
冤家宜解不宜结	yuan	jie	It is better to squash enmity rather than keeping it alive (proverb)
冤家对头	yuan	tou	enemy (idiom); opponent; arch-enemy
冤家路窄	yuan	zhai	lit. for enemies, the road is narrow (idiom); fig. rivals inevitably cross paths
冤有头债有主	yuan	zhu	for every grievance someone is responsible, for every debt there is a debtor (idiom); when settling disputes one should not involve third parties
冤枉路	yuan	lu	pointless trip; not worth the trip
冤枉钱	yuan	qian	wasted money; pointless expense
冥冥之中	ming	zhong	in the unseen world of spirits; mysteriously and inexorably
冥思苦想	ming	xiang	see 苦思冥想[ku3 si1 ming2 xiang3]
冥思苦索	ming	suo	see 苦思冥想[ku3 si1 ming2 xiang3]
冥王星	ming	xing	Pluto (dwarf planet)
冥顽不灵	ming	ling	(idiom) pigheaded
冬不拉	dong	la	Dombra or Tambura, Kazakh plucked lute
冬令时	dong	shi	standard time (as opposed to daylight saving time 夏令時|夏令时[xia4 ling4 shi2])
冬奥会	dong	hui	Winter Olympics
冬字头	dong	tou	name of "walk slowly" component 夂[zhi3] in Chinese characters
冬歇期	dong	qi	winter break
冬残奥会	dong	hui	Winter Paralympics
冬病夏治	dong	zhi	to treat winter diseases in the summer (TCM)
冬至点	dong	dian	the winter solstice
冬荫功	dong	gong	(loanword) tom yum goong (Thai soup)
冬虫夏草	dong	cao	caterpillar fungus (Ophiocordyceps sinensis) (The fungus grows within the body of a caterpillar, culminating in the emergence of a stalked fruiting body from the caterpillar's head, and is a much-prized and expensive ingredient used as a tonic in traditional Chinese medicine.)
冬运会	dong	hui	winter games
冬阴功	dong	gong	variant of 冬蔭功|冬荫功[dong1 yin1 gong1]
冬青树	dong	shu	holly
冯内果	feng	guo	Kurt Vonnegut, Jr. (1922-2007), US writer
冯友兰	feng	lan	Feng Youlan (1895-1990), distinguished Chinese philosopher
冯德英	feng	ying	Feng Deying (1935–2022), author of the 1958 novel Bitter Herbs 苦菜花[Ku3 cai4 hua1]
冯德莱恩	feng	en	Ursula von der Leyen (1958-), German politician, president of the European Commission from 2019
冯梦龙	feng	long	Feng Menglong (1574-1646), late Ming dynasty novelist writing in colloquial (baihua), author of Stories Old and New 古今小說|古今小说[Gu3 jin1 Xiao3 shuo1]
冯玉祥	feng	xiang	Feng Yuxiang (1882-1948), warlord during Republic of China, strongly critical of Chiang Kai-shek
冯窦伯	feng	bo	Feng Doubo or Feng Wu (1672-), calligrapher of the Ming-Qing transition; also called 馮武|冯武[Feng2 Wu3]
冯骥才	feng	cai	Feng Jicai (1942-), novelist from Tianjin, author of Extraordinary people in our ordinary world 俗世奇人
冰上运动	bing	dong	ice-sports
冰冻三尺非一日之寒	bing	han	three feet of ice does not form in a single day (idiom); Rome wasn't built in a day
冰凝器	bing	qi	cryophorus
冰叶日中花	bing	hua	ice plant (Mesembryanthemum crystallinum)
冰咖啡	bing	fei	iced coffee
冰块盒	bing	he	ice cube tray
冰坨子	bing	zi	(coll.) chunks of ice
冰塔林	bing	lin	serac band
冰墩墩	bing	dun	Bing Dwen Dwen (mascot of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, a panda wearing a bodysuit of transparent ice)
冰壶秋月	bing	yue	jade ice jug and autumn moon (idiom, from poem by Song writer Su Dongpo 蘇東坡|苏东坡); fig. spotless white and pure; flawless person
冰天雪地	bing	di	a world of ice and snow
冰山一角	bing	jiao	tip of the iceberg
冰山美人	bing	ren	ice queen (beautiful woman who appears to be emotionless and distant)
冰川期	bing	qi	ice age
冰晶石	bing	shi	cryolite
冰染染料	bing	liao	azoic dye
冰棍儿	bing	r	ice lolly; popsicle
冰河时代	bing	dai	ice age
冰河时期	bing	qi	ice age
冰河期	bing	qi	ice age
冰洲石	bing	shi	Iceland spar
冰消瓦解	bing	jie	to melt like ice and break like tiles; to disintegrate; to dissolve
冰淇淋	bing	lin	ice cream
冰清玉洁	bing	jie	clear as ice and clean as jade (idiom); spotless; irreproachable; incorruptible
冰激凌	bing	ling	ice cream
冰炭不相容	bing	rong	as incompatible or irreconcilable as ice and hot coals
冰炭不言冷热自明	bing	ming	ice or coals, whether hot or cold goes without saying (idiom); fig. sincerity is not expressed in words
冰球场	bing	chang	ice hockey rink
冰皮月饼	bing	bing	snow skin mooncake (with a soft casing which is not baked, instead of the traditional baked pastry casing)
冰积物	bing	wu	glacial sediment
冰糖葫芦	bing	lu	sugar-coated Chinese hawthorn or other fruit on a bamboo skewer; tanghulu
冰肌玉骨	bing	gu	(idiom) (of a woman) having fair, flawless skin and a graceful, refined beauty
冰醋酸	bing	suan	glacial acetic acid
冰释前嫌	bing	xian	(idiom) to forget previous differences; to bury the hatchet
冰雪皇后	bing	hou	Dairy Queen (brand)
冰雪聪明	bing	ming	(idiom) exceptionally intelligent
冰风暴	bing	bao	icy storm; hailstorm
冲击力	chong	li	force of impact or thrust
冲击波	chong	bo	shock wave; blast wave
冲击钻	chong	zuan	impact drill; hammer drill
冲口而出	chong	chu	to blurt out without thinking (idiom)
冲断层	chong	ceng	thrust fault (geology); compression fault
冲昏头脑	chong	nao	lit. to be muddled in the brain (idiom); fig. excited and unable to act rationally; to go to one's head
冲服剂	chong	ji	dose of medicine to be taken in solution; infusion
冲浪板	chong	ban	surfboard; paddleboard
冲淋浴	chong	yu	to take a shower
冲牙器	chong	qi	water pick; oral irrigator
冲积层	chong	ceng	alluvial deposit; alluvium
冲积平原	chong	yuan	alluvial plain
冲绳岛	chong	dao	Okinawa Island
冲绳群岛	chong	dao	the Okinawa archipelago
冲锋枪	chong	qiang	submachine gun
冲锋舟	chong	zhou	heavy-duty inflatable boat
冲锋陷阵	chong	zhen	(idiom) to charge into battle; (fig.) to be on the front lines
决一雌雄	jue	xiong	see 一決雌雄|一决雌雄[yi1 jue2 ci2 xiong2]
决定性	jue	xing	decisive; conclusive
决定论	jue	lun	determinism
决明子	jue	zi	(botany) cassia seed
决策树	jue	shu	decision tree
决策者	jue	zhe	policymaker
决胜千里	jue	li	to be able to plan victory from a thousand miles away (idiom)
决胜负	jue	fu	to determine the outcome; to determine success or failure
决议案	jue	an	resolution (of a meeting)
决选名单	jue	dan	short list
冶炼炉	ye	lu	a furnace for smelting metal
冶金学	ye	xue	metallurgy
冷不丁	leng	ding	suddenly; by surprise
冷不防	leng	fang	unexpectedly; suddenly; at unawares
冷丝丝	leng	si	a bit chilly
冷兵器	leng	qi	weapon not using gunpowder or explosives (opposite: 熱兵器|热兵器[re4 bing1 qi4])
冷冷清清	leng	qing	deserted; desolate; unfrequented
冷冻库	leng	ku	freezer room
冷冻柜	leng	gui	freezer
冷却剂	leng	ji	coolant
冷却塔	leng	ta	cooling tower
冷却水	leng	shui	cooling water (in a reactor)
冷启动	leng	dong	to cold start (a vehicle, a computer etc)
冷嘲热讽	leng	feng	frigid irony and scorching satire (idiom); to mock and ridicule
冷处理	leng	li	(mechanics) cold treatment; to downplay; to handle in a low-key way
冷敷布	leng	bu	cold compress
冷暖房	leng	fang	cooling and heating; air conditioning and central heating
冷暖自知	leng	zhi	see 如人飲水，冷暖自知|如人饮水，冷暖自知[ru2 ren2 yin3 shui3 , leng3 nuan3 zi4 zhi1]
冷暴力	leng	li	non-physical abuse; emotional abuse; the silent treatment
冷森森	leng	sen	chilling cold; cold and threatening
冷气团	leng	tuan	(meteorology) cold air mass
冷气机	leng	ji	air conditioner
冷气衫	leng	shan	warm clothes such as padded jacket to be worn in air conditioning (esp. in Hong Kong)
冷水机组	leng	zu	chiller
冷水江	leng	jiang	see 冷水江市[Leng3 shui3 jiang1 Shi4]
冷水江市	leng	shi	Lengshuijiang, a county-level city in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
冷水滩	leng	tan	see 冷水灘區|冷水滩区[Leng3 shui3 tan1 Qu1]
冷水滩区	leng	qu	Lengshuitan, a district of Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
冷淡关系	leng	xi	cold relations (e.g. between countries)
冷清清	leng	qing	deserted; desolate; unfrequented
冷热病	leng	bing	malaria
冷眼旁观	leng	guan	(idiom) to observe with an indifferent attitude; to be a bystander (usually referring to someone who could get involved but chooses not to)
冷知识	leng	shi	trivia
冷空气	leng	qi	(meteorology) cold air mass
冷笑话	leng	hua	corny joke
冷若冰霜	leng	shuang	as cold as ice and frost (idiom, usually of woman); icy manner; frigid
冷萃咖啡	leng	fei	cold brew coffee
冷藏箱	leng	xiang	cooler; ice chest; reefer container
冷藏车	leng	che	refrigerated truck or wagon
冷血动物	leng	wu	cold-blooded animal; fig. cold-hearted person
冷言冷语	leng	yu	sarcastic comments (idiom); to make sarcastic comments
冷语冰人	leng	ren	to offend people with unkind remarks (idiom)
冷酷无情	leng	qing	cold-hearted; unfeeling; callous
冷静期	leng	qi	cooling-off period (divorces, purchases, surgeries)
冷飕飕	leng	sou	chilling; chilly
冻土层	dong	ceng	permafrost; tundra; layer of frozen soil
冼星海	xian	hai	Xian Xinghai (1905-1945), violinist and composer, known for patriotic wartime pieces, including Yellow River Oratorio 黃河大合唱|黄河大合唱[Huang2 He2 Da4 he2 chang4]
净利润	jing	run	net profit
净利率	jing	lv	net profit margin; net margin
净含量	jing	liang	net weight
净土宗	jing	zong	Pure Land Buddhism
净收入	jing	ru	net income; net profit
净水器	jing	qi	water purifier
净现值	jing	zhi	net present value (NPV)
净身出户	jing	hu	to leave a marriage with nothing (no possessions or property)
凄风苦雨	qi	yu	lit. bleak wind and icy rain (idiom); fig. hardships; miserable circumstances
准决赛	zhun	sai	semifinal
准噶尔盆地	zhun	di	Junggar Basin, northern Xinjiang
准噶尔翼龙	zhun	long	Dsungaripterus (genus of pterosaur)
准备好了	zhun	le	to be ready
准备金	zhun	jin	reserve fund
准妈妈	zhun	ma	mother-to-be
准格尔旗	zhun	qi	Jungar Banner in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
准生证	zhun	zheng	birth permit
准确性	zhun	xing	accuracy
准稳旋涡结构	zhun	gou	quasi-stationary spiral structure QSSS (astrophysics)
准考证	zhun	zheng	(exam) admission ticket
准谱儿	zhun	r	definite idea; certainty; clear plan; definite guidelines
凉了半截	liang	jie	felt a chill (in one's heart); (one's heart) sank
凉城县	liang	xian	Liangcheng, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
凉山州	liang	zhou	see 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
凉山彝族自治州	liang	zhou	Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture, in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
凉州区	liang	qu	Liangzhou, a district of Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
凉拌面	liang	mian	cold noodles in sauce
凉白开	liang	kai	cold boiled water
凌乱不堪	ling	kan	in a terrible mess (idiom)
凌云县	ling	xian	Lingyun, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
凌杂米盐	ling	yan	disordered and fragmentary
凌河区	ling	qu	Linghe, a district of Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
凌波舞	ling	wu	limbo (dance) (loanword)
凌海市	ling	shi	Linghai, a county-level city in Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
凌源市	ling	shi	Lingyuan, a county-level city in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
凌蒙初	ling	chu	Ling Mengchu (1580–1644), Ming dynasty short story writer and playwright
凌霄花	ling	hua	Chinese trumpet vine (Campsis grandiflora)
减压时间表	jian	biao	decompression schedule (diving); also called 減壓程序|减压程序[jian3 ya1 cheng2 xu4]
减压病	jian	bing	decompression sickness; the bends; also 減壓症|减压症[jian3 ya1 zheng4]
减压症	jian	zheng	decompression sickness; the bends; also 減壓病|减压病[jian3 ya1 bing4]
减压程序	jian	xu	decompression schedule
减压表	jian	biao	decompression table
减摇鳍	jian	qi	fin stabilizer (in ships); anti-roll stabilizer
减数分裂	jian	lie	(biology) meiosis
减毒活疫苗	jian	miao	attenuated live vaccine
减速器	jian	qi	moderator; reducer (mechanical gearbox)
减速带	jian	dai	speed bump
减震器	jian	qi	shock absorber
减震鞋	jian	xie	cushioning shoe
凑份子	cou	zi	to pool resources (for a gift, project etc)
凑热闹	cou	nao	to join in the fun; to get in on the action; (fig.) to butt in
凝固剂	ning	ji	solidifying agent; coagulant
凝固汽油弹	ning	dan	napalm
凝固点	ning	dian	freezing point
凝聚力	ning	li	cohesion; cohesiveness; cohesive
凝聚层	ning	ceng	coherent sheaf (math.)
凝聚态	ning	tai	condensed matter (physics)
凝胶体	ning	ti	gel
凝花菜	ning	cai	gelidiella, tropical and subtropical red algae
凝血素	ning	su	hemaglutinin (protein causing blood clotting)
凝血酶	ning	mei	thrombin (biochemistry)
凝血酶原	ning	yuan	prothrombin
凝集素	ning	su	(biochemistry) agglutinin; lectin
几丁质	ji	zhi	chitin
几乎不	ji	bu	hardly; seems not
几何光学	ji	xue	geometric optics
几何原本	ji	ben	Euclid's "Elements"
几何图形	ji	xing	geometric figure
几何学	ji	xue	geometry
几何平均数	ji	shu	geometric mean
几何拓扑	ji	pu	(math.) geometric topology
几何拓扑学	ji	xue	(math.) geometric topology
几何级数	ji	shu	geometric series
几何级数增长	ji	zhang	exponential increase
几何量	ji	liang	geometric quantity
几内亚	ji	ya	Guinea; Taiwan pr. [Ji1nei4ya4]
几内亚比索	ji	suo	Guinea-Bissau (Tw)
几内亚比绍	ji	shao	Guinea-Bissau
几内亚湾	ji	wan	Gulf of Guinea
几可乱真	ji	zhen	to seem almost genuine; easily mistaken for the real thing
几天来	ji	lai	for the past few days
几年来	ji	lai	for the past several years
几次三番	ji	fan	lit. twice then three times (idiom); fig. repeatedly; over and over again
几维鸟	ji	niao	kiwi (bird) (loanword)
几进宫	ji	gong	(slang) to have served several sentences; recidivist; old lag
凡士林	fan	lin	(loanword) vaseline
凡士通	fan	tong	Firestone (Tire and Rubber Company)
凡夫俗子	fan	zi	common people; ordinary folk
凡尔丁	fan	ding	a type of plain-woven woolen fabric that is thin, stiff and smooth
凡尔赛	fan	sai	Versailles (near Paris); (slang) to humblebrag; ostensibly modest, but in fact boastful
凡尔赛宫	fan	gong	the Palace of Versailles, France
凡尔赛文学	fan	xue	(slang) social media post whose purpose is to humblebrag
凡得瓦力	fan	li	(molecular physics) van der Waals force
凡立水	fan	shui	(loanword) varnish
凡赛斯	fan	si	Versace (fashion brand) (Tw)
凤仙花	feng	hua	balsam; Balsaminaceae (a flower family including Impatiens balsamina); touch-me-not
凤冈县	feng	xian	Fenggang, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
凤凰县	feng	xian	Fenghuang, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
凤凰古城	feng	cheng	Fenghuang Ancient Town, in Fenghuang County, Xiangxi Prefecture, Hunan, added to the UNESCO World Heritage Tentative List in 2008 in the Cultural category
凤凰号	feng	hao	Phoenix, NASA Mars explorer
凤凰城	feng	cheng	Phoenix, capital of Arizona; also 菲尼克斯[Fei1 ni2 ke4 si1]
凤凰座	feng	zuo	Phoenix (constellation)
凤凰木	feng	mu	royal poinciana (Delonix regia)
凤凰男	feng	nan	(Internet slang) guy who grew up in the countryside and gained a foothold in the city through hard work
凤台县	feng	xian	Fengtai, a county in Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
凤城市	feng	shi	Fengcheng, a county-level city in Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
凤头树燕	feng	yan	(bird species of China) crested treeswift (Hemiprocne coronata)
凤头潜鸭	feng	ya	(bird species of China) tufted duck (Aythya fuligula)
凤头百灵	feng	ling	(bird species of China) crested lark (Galerida cristata)
凤头蜂鹰	feng	ying	(bird species of China) crested honey buzzard (Pernis ptilorhynchus)
凤头雀嘴鹎	feng	bei	(bird species of China) crested finchbill (Spizixos canifrons)
凤头雀莺	feng	ying	(bird species of China) crested tit-warbler (Leptopoecile elegans)
凤头鹀	feng	wu	(bird species of China) crested bunting (Emberiza lathami)
凤头鹦鹉	feng	wu	cockatoo (zoology)
凤头鹰	feng	ying	(bird species of China) crested goshawk (Accipiter trivirgatus)
凤头鹰雕	feng	diao	(bird species of China) changeable hawk-eagle; crested hawk-eagle (Nisaetus cirrhatus)
凤头麦鸡	feng	ji	(bird species of China) northern lapwing (Vanellus vanellus)
凤尾竹	feng	zhu	fernleaf bamboo (Bambusa multiplex), species of bamboo native to China, suited to hedging and screening
凤尾船	feng	chuan	gondola (Venetian canal boat)
凤尾蕨	feng	jue	brake (fern of genus Pteris); (esp.) spider fern (Pteris multifida)
凤尾鱼	feng	yu	anchovy
凤山县	feng	xian	Fengshan, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
凤山市	feng	shi	Fengshan city in Taiwan
凤庆县	feng	xian	Fengqing, a county in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
凤梨可乐达	feng	da	piña colada
凤梨园	feng	yuan	pineapple plantation; piña colada
凤梨酥	feng	su	pineapple cake, traditional Taiwanese sweet pastry
凤梨释迦	feng	jia	atemoya, hybrid of the cherimoya (Annona cherimola) and the sugar apple (Annona squamosa): a tree grown in tropical regions of the Americas and in Taiwan for its edible fruit
凤毛麟角	feng	jiao	lit. as rare as phoenix feathers and unicorn horns (idiom); fig. few and far between
凤泉区	feng	qu	Fengquan, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
凤眼兰	feng	lan	water hyacinth
凤翔区	feng	qu	Fengxiang, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
凤蝶科	feng	ke	family Papilionidae (taxonomy)
凤阳县	feng	xian	Fengyang, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
凭什么	ping	me	(spoken) why?; for which reason?
凭本能做事	ping	shi	to follow one's nose
凭白无故	ping	gu	variant of 平白無故|平白无故[ping2 bai2 wu2 gu4]
凭祥市	ping	shi	Pingxiang, a county-level city in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
凭票入场	ping	chang	admission by ticket only
凭空捏造	ping	zao	fabrication relying on nothing (idiom); frame-up
凭轼结辙	ping	zhe	to drive non-stop as fast as one can (idiom)
凯夫拉	kai	la	Kevlar
凯尔特人	kai	ren	Celt
凯尼恩	kai	en	(name) Kenyon; Canyon
凯恩斯	kai	si	(name) Keynes; John Maynard Keynes (1883–1946), influential British economist; Cairns, city in Queensland, Australia
凯撒肋雅	kai	ya	Caesarea (town in Israel, between Tel Aviv and Haifa)
凯撒酱	kai	jiang	Caesar salad dressing
凯旋门	kai	men	triumphal arch
凯林赛	kai	sai	keirin cycle race (paced stadium event) (loanword from Japanese 競輪 "keirin")
凯法劳尼亚	kai	ya	Kefalonia, Greek Island in the Ionian sea
凯瑟琳	kai	lin	Catherine (name); Katherine
凯芙拉	kai	la	Kevlar
凯蒂猫	kai	mao	Hello Kitty
凯达格兰	kai	lan	Ketagalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan, esp. northeast corner
凯达格兰族	kai	zu	Ketagalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan, esp. northeast corner
凯迪拉克	kai	ke	Cadillac
凯里市	kai	shi	Kaili, a county-level city in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
凯门鳄	kai	e	(zoology) caiman
凶多吉少	xiong	shao	(lit.) everything bodes ill, no positive signs (idiom); (fig.) inauspicious; everything points to disaster
凶巴巴	xiong	ba	harsh; savage; fierce
凶杀案	xiong	an	murder case
凶相毕露	xiong	lu	show one's ferocious appearance (idiom); the atrocious features revealed; with fangs bared
凶神恶煞	xiong	sha	(idiom) fiends; devils; monsters
凸多胞形	tu	xing	convex polytope
凸多边形	tu	xing	convex polygon
凸多面体	tu	ti	convex polyhedron
凸折线	tu	xian	convex polygonal line
凸版印刷	tu	shua	relief printing; typography; printing with metal plates
凸轮轴	tu	zhou	camshaft
凸透镜	tu	jing	convex lens
凸面体	tu	ti	convex body
凸面镜	tu	jing	convex mirror
凹凸不平	ao	ping	(idiom) uneven (surface); bumpy (road)
凹凸印刷	ao	shua	embossing; die stamping
凹凸形	ao	xing	crenelated; corrugated
凹凸性	ao	xing	(math.) concavity
凹凸有致	ao	zhi	curvaceous
凹凸轧花	ao	hua	embossing
凹朴皮	ao	pi	bark of tulip tree (TCM); Cortex Liriodendri
凹透镜	ao	jing	concave lens
凹造型	ao	xing	(coll.) to strike a pose
凹面镜	ao	jing	concave mirror
出主意	chu	yi	to come up with ideas; to make suggestions; to offer advice
出乎意外	chu	wai	beyond expectation (idiom); unexpected
出乎意料	chu	liao	(idiom) unexpected
出乎预料	chu	liao	beyond expectation (idiom); unexpected
出乱子	chu	zi	to go wrong; to get into trouble
出了事	chu	shi	sth bad happened
出人命	chu	ming	fatal; resulting in sb's death
出人头地	chu	di	to stand out among one's peers (idiom); to excel
出人意外	chu	wai	turned out other than expected (idiom); unexpected
出人意料	chu	liao	unexpected (idiom); surprising
出人意表	chu	biao	to exceed all expectations; to come as a surprise
出份子	chu	zi	to club together (to offer a gift); to hold a whip-round
出入口	chu	kou	gateway
出入境	chu	jing	to leave or enter a country
出入境检验检疫局	chu	ju	entry-exit inspection and quarantine bureau
出入境管理局	chu	ju	Exit and Entry Administration Bureau (PRC)
出入平安	chu	an	lit. peace when you come or go; peace wherever you go
出入门	chu	men	entrance and exit door
出其不意	chu	yi	to do sth when least expected (idiom); to catch sb off guard
出其不意攻其不备	chu	bei	to catch an enemy off guard with a surprise attack (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3])
出厂价	chu	jia	factory price
出厂设置	chu	zhi	(computing) factory settings
出发点	chu	dian	starting point; (fig.) basis; motive
出口商	chu	shang	exporter; export business
出口商品	chu	pin	export product; export goods
出口成章	chu	zhang	(idiom) (of one's speech) eloquent; articulate
出口气	chu	qi	to take one's revenge; to score off sb
出口调查	chu	cha	exit poll
出口货	chu	huo	exports; goods for export
出口额	chu	e	export amount
出品人	chu	ren	producer (film)
出圈儿	chu	r	to overstep the bounds; to go too far
出场费	chu	fei	appearance fee
出埃及记	chu	ji	Book of Exodus; Second Book of Moses
出大差	chu	chai	(old) to be taken out to be executed
出头的椽子先烂	chu	lan	lit. rafters that jut out rot first (idiom); fig. anyone who makes himself conspicuous will be targeted for attack
出头鸟	chu	niao	to stand out (among a group); distinguished
出奇制胜	chu	sheng	to win by a surprise move
出娄子	chu	zi	to run into difficulties; to cause trouble
出家人	chu	ren	monk; nun (Buddhist or Daoist)
出尔反尔	chu	er	old: to reap the consequences of one's words (idiom, from Mencius); modern: to go back on one's word; to blow hot and cold; to contradict oneself
出尖儿	chu	r	erhua variant of 出尖[chu1 jian1]
出岔子	chu	zi	to go wrong; to take a wrong turning
出师未捷身先死	chu	si	"he failed to complete his quest before death" (line from the poem "The Premier of Shu" 蜀相[Shu3 xiang4] by Du Fu 杜甫[Du4 Fu3])
出席者	chu	zhe	attendee
出摊儿	chu	r	(coll.) to set up a vendor's stall (in the street or at a night market etc)
出月子	chu	zi	to complete the month of confinement following childbirth; cf 坐月子[zuo4 yue4 zi5]
出来混迟早要还的	chu	de	if you live a life of crime, sooner or later you'll pay for it
出校门	chu	men	(fig.) to leave school; to graduate; to enter the world beyond school
出楼子	chu	zi	variant of 出婁子|出娄子[chu1 lou2 zi5]
出毛病	chu	bing	a problem appears; to break down
出气口	chu	kou	gas or air outlet; emotional outlet
出气筒	chu	tong	(metaphorical) punching bag; undeserving target of sb's wrath
出水口	chu	kou	water outlet; drainage outlet
出水芙蓉	chu	rong	as a lotus flower breaking the surface (idiom); surpassingly beautiful (of young lady's face or old gentleman's calligraphy)
出没无常	chu	chang	to appear and disappear unpredictably
出洋相	chu	xiang	to make a fool of oneself
出淤泥而不染	chu	ran	lit. to grow out of the mud unsullied (idiom); fig. to be principled and incorruptible
出港大厅	chu	ting	departure lounge
出溜屁	chu	pi	silent fart
出满勤干满点	chu	dian	to be assiduous and work full hours
出漏子	chu	zi	to take a wrong turn; to go wrong
出点子	chu	zi	to express an opinion; to offer advice
出版商	chu	shang	publisher
出版物	chu	wu	publications
出版社	chu	she	publishing house
出版者	chu	zhe	publisher
出生入死	chu	si	from the cradle to the grave (idiom); to go through fire and water; brave; willing to risk life and limb
出生地	chu	di	birthplace
出生地点	chu	dian	place of birth
出生日期	chu	qi	date of birth
出生率	chu	lv	birth rate
出生缺陷	chu	xian	birth defect
出生证	chu	zheng	birth certificate; CL:張|张[zhang1]
出生证明	chu	ming	birth certificate; CL:張|张[zhang1]
出生证明书	chu	shu	birth certificate; CL:張|张[zhang1]
出神入化	chu	hua	to reach perfection (idiom); a superb artistic achievement
出神音乐	chu	yue	trance (music genre)
出租司机	chu	ji	taxi driver
出租屋	chu	wu	rental unit; apartment
出租汽车	chu	che	taxi; cab (PRC); hire car (Tw)
出租车	chu	che	taxi; (Tw) rental car
出类拔萃	chu	cui	to excel the common (idiom); surpassing; preeminent; outstanding
出纳员	chu	yuan	cashier; teller; treasurer
出老千	chu	qian	to cheat (in gambling)
出自肺腑	chu	fu	from the bottom of one's heart (idiom)
出臭子儿	chu	r	to make a bad move (in a game of chess)
出菜秀	chu	xiu	dinner show; dinner and floor show
出血性	chu	xing	hemorrhagic
出血性登革热	chu	re	dengue hemorrhagic fever (DHF)
出血热	chu	re	hemorrhagic fever
出言不逊	chu	xun	to speak rudely
出谋划策	chu	ce	to put forward plans and ideas (also derogatory); to give advice (idiom)
出远门	chu	men	to travel far away from home
出锋头	chu	tou	variant of 出風頭|出风头[chu1 feng1 tou5]
出错信息	chu	xi	(computing) error message
出门在外	chu	wai	to be away from home; to live away from one's family
出问题	chu	ti	to have sth go wrong; to have a problem arise; to give problems
出难题	chu	ti	to raise a tough question
出风口	chu	kou	air vent; air outlet
出风头	chu	tou	to push oneself forward; to seek fame; to be in the limelight
击弦类	ji	lei	hammered string type (of musical instrument)
击弦类乐器	ji	qi	hammered string musical instrument
击球员	ji	yuan	(baseball, cricket etc) batter
击鼓传花	ji	hua	beat the drum, pass the flower (game in which players sit in a circle passing a flower around while a drum is beaten – when the drumbeat stops, the player holding the flower must sing a song, answer a question, or drink a glass of wine etc)
击鼓鸣金	ji	jin	to beat the drum and sound the gong (idiom); fig. to order an advance or retreat; to egg people on or to call them back
函式库	han	ku	library (partition on computer hard disk)
函授大学	han	xue	correspondence university
函授课程	han	cheng	correspondence course
函谷关	han	guan	Hangu Pass in modern day Henan Province, strategic pass forming the eastern gate of the Qin State during the Warring States Period (770-221 BC)
函送法办	han	ban	to bring to justice; to hand over to the law
凿壁偷光	zao	guang	lit. to pierce the wall to steal a light (idiom); fig. to study diligently in the face of hardship
凿岩机	zao	ji	rock drill
凿死卯子	zao	zi	variant of 鑿死鉚子|凿死铆子[zao2 si3 mao3 zi5]
凿死铆子	zao	zi	(dialect) stubborn; obstinate; inflexible
凿石场	zao	chang	rock quarry
刀光剑影	dao	ying	lit. flash of knives and swords (idiom); fig. intense conflict
刀光血影	dao	ying	massacre
刀削面	dao	mian	knife-shaved noodles (pared or shaved into strips), a Shanxi specialty
刀子嘴巴豆腐心	dao	xin	lit. knife mouth but heart of bean curd; sharp tongue concealing a caring heart
刀子嘴豆腐心	dao	xin	to have a sharp tongue but a soft heart (idiom)
刀山火海	dao	hai	lit. mountains of daggers and seas of flames; fig. extreme danger (idiom)
刀斧手	dao	shou	lictor
刀枪不入	dao	ru	lit. impervious to sword or spear (idiom); fig. invulnerable; untouchable
刀枪剑戟	dao	ji	(idiom) melee combat weapons of ancient China, such as swords, spears and halberds
刀片刺网	dao	wang	razor wire
刀片铁丝网	dao	wang	razor wire
刀耕火种	dao	zhong	slash and burn (agriculture)
刀锯斧钺	dao	yue	knife, saw, ax and hatchet (idiom); facing torture and execution
刀锯鼎镬	dao	huo	knife, saw and cauldron; ancient instruments of torture; fig. torture
刀马旦	dao	dan	female warrior role in Chinese opera
分一杯羹	fen	geng	(fig.) to have a slice of the pie; to get a piece of the action
分久必合合久必分	fen	fen	(lit.) that which is long divided must unify, and that which is long unified must divide (proverb, from Romance of the Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4]); (fig.) things are constantly changing
分产主义	fen	yi	(economics) distributism
分会场	fen	chang	sub-venues
分位数	fen	shu	quantile (statistics)
分光光度法	fen	fa	spectrophotometry
分光计	fen	ji	spectrometer
分公司	fen	si	subsidiary company; branch office
分分钟	fen	zhong	any minute now; in next to no time; at every minute; constantly
分列式	fen	shi	(military) march-past
分割区	fen	qu	partition (computing)
分包商	fen	shang	subcontractor
分头路	fen	lu	part (in one's hair)
分子医学	fen	xue	molecular medicine
分子式	fen	shi	molecular formula
分子料理	fen	li	molecular gastronomy
分子杂交	fen	jiao	molecular hybridization
分子生物学	fen	xue	molecular biology
分子筛	fen	shai	molecular sieve
分子遗传学	fen	xue	molecular genetics
分子量	fen	liang	molecular mass
分宜县	fen	xian	Fenyi, a county in Xinyu City 新余市[Xin1 yu2 Shi4], Jiangxi
分封制	fen	zhi	the feudal system; system of enfeoffment
分崩离析	fen	xi	to collapse and fall apart (idiom); to break up; falling to pieces
分巡兵备道	fen	dao	(Qing dynasty) provincial surveillance and defense commission
分布图	fen	tu	scatter diagram; distribution chart; histogram
分布式	fen	shi	distributed
分布式环境	fen	jing	distributed environment (computing)
分布式结构	fen	gou	distributed architecture
分布式网络	fen	luo	distributed network
分布控制	fen	zhi	distributed control
分庭抗礼	fen	li	peer competition; to function as rivals; to make claims as an equal
分形几何	fen	he	fractal geometry
分形几何学	fen	xue	fractal geometry
分手代理	fen	li	"break-up agent", person who acts for sb who wishes to terminate a relationship but does not have the heart to do so
分手炮	fen	pao	(slang) breakup sex
分散和弦	fen	xian	(music) arpeggio
分散式	fen	shi	distributed
分数挂帅	fen	shuai	preoccupied with school grades; overemphasis on test scores
分数线	fen	xian	horizontal line (in a fraction); minimum passing score
分文不取	fen	qu	to give for free
分时多工	fen	gong	time division multiplexing; TDM
分星掰两	fen	liang	punctilious; clear and detailed
分期付款	fen	kuan	to pay in installments; payment in installments
分权制衡	fen	heng	separation of powers for checks and balances
分析人士	fen	shi	analyst; expert
分析化学	fen	xue	analytical chemistry
分析员	fen	yuan	analyst (e.g. of news)
分析器	fen	qi	analyzer
分析处理	fen	li	to parse; analysis processing; to analyze and treat
分析学	fen	xue	analysis (branch of mathematics)
分析家	fen	jia	(political) analyst
分析师	fen	shi	analyst; commentator
分析心理学	fen	xue	analytical psychology; Jungian psychology
分析法	fen	fa	the analytic method; analytic reasoning
分析语	fen	yu	analytic language
分步骤	fen	zhou	step by step; one step at a time
分歧点	fen	dian	point of disagreement
分毫之差	fen	cha	hairsbreadth difference
分水岭	fen	ling	dividing range; drainage divide; (fig.) dividing line
分水线	fen	xian	watershed
分泌物	fen	wu	secretion
分泌颗粒	fen	li	secretory granule
分波多工	fen	gong	wavelength division multiplexing; WDM
分流电路	fen	lu	shunt circuit; current divider (electronics)
分灶吃饭	fen	fan	"meals prepared at separate stoves", slogan of the program of fiscal decentralization that began in the 1980s in the PRC
分生组织	fen	zhi	meristem
分界线	fen	xian	dividing line
分离主义	fen	yi	separatism
分离分子	fen	zi	separatist
分秒必争	fen	zheng	seize every minute and second (idiom); not a minute to lose; every moment counts
分类学	fen	xue	taxonomy; taxology; systematics
分类帐	fen	zhang	a ledger; a spreadsheet
分类理论	fen	lun	classification theory
分系统	fen	tong	subsystem
分组交换	fen	huan	packet switching
分而治之	fen	zhi	(idiom) to divide and rule
分至点	fen	dian	common word for equinox and solstice; point of difference; point of divergence
分色镜头	fen	tou	process lens (working by color separation)
分裂主义	fen	yi	separatism
分裂情感性障碍	fen	ai	schizoaffective disorder
分裂组织	fen	zhi	separatist group; (botany) meristem
分装机	fen	ji	racking machine; filling machine
分角器	fen	qi	a protractor (device to divide angles)
分角线	fen	xian	(Tw) angle bisector
分解代谢	fen	xie	catabolism (biology); metabolic breaking down and waste disposal; dissimilation
分解作用	fen	yong	decomposition
分解者	fen	zhe	(biology) decomposer
分身乏术	fen	shu	to be up to one's ears in work (idiom); to be unable to attend to other things at the same time
分辨率	fen	lv	resolution (of images, monitors, scanners etc)
分道扬镳	fen	biao	lit. to take different roads and urge the horses on (idiom); fig. to part ways
分配器	fen	qi	dispenser (for consumables such as liquid soap); splitter (for cable TV signal etc)
分配律	fen	lv	(math.) distributive law
分销商	fen	shang	distributor
分销店	fen	dian	retail store
分销网络	fen	luo	distribution network
分镜头	fen	tou	storyboard
分镜表	fen	biao	storyboard
分门别类	fen	lei	(idiom) to organize by categories; to classify
分音符	fen	fu	dieresis; umlaut; diacritical mark separating two adjacent syllables
分页符	fen	fu	page break
切中时弊	qie	bi	to hit home on the evils of the day (idiom); fig. to hit a current political target; to hit the nub of the matter
切中时病	qie	bing	to hit the target where it hurts (idiom); fig. to hit home; to hit the nail on the head (in an argument)
切中要害	qie	hai	to hit the target and do real damage (idiom); fig. to hit where it hurts; fig. to hit home
切分音	qie	yin	syncopation
切切私语	qie	yu	variant of 竊竊私語|窃窃私语[qie4 qie4 si1 yu3]
切叶蜂	qie	feng	leafcutter bee
切合实际	qie	ji	practical; corresponding to reality; geared to practical situations
切向力	qie	li	tangential force
切向速度	qie	du	tangential velocity
切向量	qie	liang	tangent vector
切实可行	qie	xing	feasible
切尔西	qie	xi	(name) Chelsea
切尔诺贝利	qie	li	Chernobyl
切平面	qie	mian	(geometry) tangent plane
切片检查	qie	cha	histopathological examination; biopsy
切特豪斯学校	qie	xiao	Charterhouse public school (UK)
切磋琢磨	qie	mo	lit. cutting and polishing (idiom); fig. to learn by exchanging ideas or experiences
切空间	qie	jian	space of sections (math.)
切结书	qie	shu	affidavit; written pledge
切肉刀	qie	dao	meat cleaver
切肤之痛	qie	tong	keenly felt pain; bitter anguish
切菜板	qie	ban	cutting board; chopping board
切骨之仇	qie	chou	bitter hatred; hatred that cuts to the bone
切齿腐心	qie	xin	to detest sth or sb to the utmost extreme (idiom)
刊误表	kan	biao	variant of 勘誤表|勘误表[kan1 wu4 biao3]
刊首语	kan	yu	foreword; preface
刑事审判庭	xing	ting	criminal court
刑事局	xing	ju	Criminal Investigation Bureau (CIB)
刑事拘留	xing	liu	to detain as criminal; criminal detention
刑事法庭	xing	ting	criminal court
刑事法院	xing	yuan	criminal court; judiciary court
刑事犯	xing	fan	a criminal
刑事犯罪	xing	zui	criminal offense
刑事警察	xing	cha	criminal police; member of the criminal police
刑事警察局	xing	ju	Criminal Investigation Bureau
刑事诉讼法	xing	fa	criminal procedure
刑名之学	xing	xue	xing-ming, a school of thought of the Warring States period associated with Shen Buhai 申不害[Shen1 Bu4 hai4]
刑诉法	xing	fa	criminal procedure; abbr. for 刑事訴訟法|刑事诉讼法
划一不二	hua	er	fixed; unalterable
划不来	hua	lai	not worth it
划十字	hua	zi	variant of 畫十字|画十字[hua4 shi2 zi4]
划圆防守	hua	shou	to counter (a stroke in fencing)
划得来	hua	lai	worth it; it pays to
划时代	hua	dai	epoch-marking
划等号	hua	hao	variant of 畫等號|画等号[hua4 deng3 hao4]
划线板	hua	ban	ruler (used for drawing lines)
划船机	hua	ji	rowing machine
划重点	hua	dian	to highlight or underline an important point
列别捷夫	lie	fu	Lebedev or Lebedyev (Russian surname)
列别杰夫	lie	fu	variant of 列別捷夫|列别捷夫[Lie4 bie2 jie2 fu1]
列宁主义	lie	yi	Leninism
列宁格勒	lie	le	Leningrad, former name (1923–1991) of Russian city Saint Petersburg 聖彼得堡|圣彼得堡[Sheng4 bi3 de2 bao3]
列支敦士登	lie	deng	Liechtenstein
列支敦斯登	lie	deng	Liechtenstein (Tw)
列氏温标	lie	biao	Réaumur temperature scale
列治文	lie	wen	Richmond (place name or surname)
列王纪上	lie	shang	First book of Kings
列王纪下	lie	xia	Second book of Kings
列王记上	lie	shang	First book of Kings
列王记下	lie	xia	Second book of Kings
列祖列宗	lie	zong	(idiom) one's ancestors through the generations
列缺霹雳	lie	li	lightning and thunder
列车员	lie	yuan	train attendant
列车长	lie	zhang	conductor; train manager
刘义庆	liu	qing	Liu Yiqing (403-444), writer of South Song Dynasty, compiler and editor of A New Account of the Tales of the World 世說新語|世说新语[Shi4 shuo1 Xin1 yu3]
刘云山	liu	shan	Liu Yunshan (1947-), PRC politician, background in journalism in Inner Mongolia, head of the Central Propaganda Department 2002-2012
刘伯温	liu	wen	Liu Bowen (1311–1375), general under the first Ming emperor Zhu Yuanzhang 朱元璋[Zhu1 Yuan2 zhang1], with a reputation as a military genius, also known as Liu Ji 劉基|刘基[Liu2 Ji1]
刘光第	liu	di	Liu Guangdi (1859-1898), one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子[Wu4 xu1 Liu4 jun1 zi5] of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
刘公岛	liu	dao	Liugong island in the Yellow sea
刘厚总	liu	zong	Liu Houzong (1904-1949), originally Hunan guerilla leader, rewarded by Chiang Kaishek for killing Xiang Ying 項英|项英[Xiang4 Ying1] during the 1941 New Fourth Army incident 皖南事變|皖南事变[Wan3 nan2 Shi4 bian4]
刘天华	liu	hua	Liu Tianhua (1895-1932), Chinese musician and composer
刘姥姥进大观园	liu	yuan	Granny Liu visits the Grand View gardens; (of a simple person) to be overwhelmed by new experiences and luxurious surroundings
刘宋时代	liu	dai	Song of the Southern dynasties (420-479), with capital at Nanjing
刘家辉	liu	hui	Gordon Liu (1955-), Hong Kong action actor
刘宾雁	liu	yan	Liu Binyan (1925-2005), journalist and novelist, condemned by Mao as rightist faction in 1957, subsequently dissident writer
刘少奇	liu	qi	Liu Shaoqi (1898-1969), Chinese communist leader, a martyr of the Cultural Revolution
刘师培	liu	pei	Liu Shipei (1884-1919), Chinese anarchist and revolutionary activist
刘德华	liu	hua	Andy Lau (1961-), Hong Kong Cantopop singer and actor
刘心武	liu	wu	Liu Xinwu (1942-), novelist
刘慈欣	liu	xin	Liu Cixin (1963-), Chinese science fiction writer
刘晓波	liu	bo	Liu Xiaobo (1955-2017), Beijing writer and human rights activist, organizer of petition Charter 2008 零八憲章|零八宪章[Ling2 ba1 Xian4 zhang1], Nobel Peace Prize laureate in 2010
刘松龄	liu	ling	Ferdinand Augustin Hallerstein (1703-1774), Slovenian Jesuit missionary, astronomer and mathematician, spent 35 years at Emperor Qianlong's court
刘涓子	liu	zi	Liu Juanzi, legendary alchemist and creator of magic potions
刘涓子鬼遗方	liu	fang	Liu Juanzi's medical recipes bequeathed by the ghost Huang Fugui 黃父鬼|黄父鬼
刘禹锡	liu	xi	Liu Yuxi (772-842), Tang poet
刘贵今	liu	jin	Liu Guijin (1945–), Chinese diplomat, ambassador to South Africa 2001–2007
刘金宝	liu	bao	Liu Jinbao (1952-), CEO of the Bank of China (Hong Kong) 1997-2003, jailed after being convicted of embezzlement
刘青云	liu	yun	Lau Ching-Wan (1964-), Hong Kong actor
则步隆	ze	long	Zabulon or Zebulun, biblical land between Jordan and Galilee (Matthew 4:15)
则辣黑	ze	hei	Zerah (son of Judah in the Old Testament)
刚察县	gang	xian	Gangca, a county in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
刚愎自用	gang	yong	obstinate and self-opinionated (idiom)
刚朵拉	gang	la	see 貢多拉|贡多拉[gong4 duo1 la1]
刚果民主共和国	gang	guo	Democratic Republic of Congo
刚果河	gang	he	Congo River
刚柔并济	gang	ji	to couple strength and gentleness (idiom)
刚正不阿	gang	e	upright and plainspoken
刚毅木讷	gang	ne	resolute and taciturn (idiom)
创下高票房	chuang	fang	to set a box office record
创世纪	chuang	ji	Genesis (first book of the Bible); the Creation, an epic poem of the Naxi 納西|纳西[Na4 xi1] ethnic group
创世记	chuang	ji	Genesis (first book of the Bible)
创世论	chuang	lun	creationism
创业投资	chuang	zi	venture capital investment
创业精神	chuang	shen	enterprising spirit; pioneering spirit
创业者	chuang	zhe	entrepreneur
创价学会	chuang	hui	Soka Gakkai International
创伤后压力症候群	chuang	qun	(Tw) post-traumatic stress disorder; PTSD
创伤后应激障碍	chuang	ai	post-traumatic stress disorder; PTSD
创作力	chuang	li	originality
创作者	chuang	zhe	creator; author
创刊号	chuang	hao	first issue
创办人	chuang	ren	founder (of an institution etc)
创办者	chuang	zhe	founder; creator
创口贴	chuang	tie	band-aid
创可贴	chuang	tie	band-aid; sticking plaster
创始人	chuang	ren	creator; founder; initiator
创始者	chuang	zhe	creator; initiator
创巨痛深	chuang	shen	(idiom) deeply distressed
创建者	chuang	zhe	founder; creator
创投基金	chuang	jin	venture capital fund
创新精神	chuang	shen	creativity
创牌子	chuang	zi	(of a company) to establish a brand name
创立人	chuang	ren	founder
创立者	chuang	zhe	founder
创见性	chuang	xing	original (idea, discovery etc)
创记录	chuang	lu	to set a record
创造主	chuang	zhu	Creator (Christianity)
创造力	chuang	li	ingenuity; creativity
创造性	chuang	xing	creativeness; creativity
创造者	chuang	zhe	creator
创造论	chuang	lun	creationism (religion)
初中生	chu	sheng	junior high student
初具规模	chu	mo	(of a project, organization etc) to have begun to take shape
初出茅庐	chu	lu	venturing from one's thatched hut for the first time (idiom); young and inexperienced; novice
初创公司	chu	si	startup company
初刻拍案惊奇	chu	qi	Slapping the Table in Amazement (Part I), first of two books of vernacular stories by Ming dynasty novelist Ling Mengchu 凌濛初|凌蒙初[Ling2 Meng2 chu1]
初唐四杰	chu	jie	the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang, namely Wang Bo 王勃[Wang2 Bo2], Yang Jiong 楊炯|杨炯[Yang2 Jiong3], Lu Zhaolin 盧照鄰|卢照邻[Lu2 Zhao4 lin2], and Luo Binwang 駱賓王|骆宾王[Luo4 Bin1 wang2]
初始化	chu	hua	(computing) to initialize; initialization
初学者	chu	zhe	beginning student
初恋感觉	chu	jue	feelings of first love
初来乍到	chu	dao	to be a newcomer; just off the boat
初步设想	chu	xiang	tentative idea
初生之犊不怕虎	chu	hu	see 初生牛犢不怕虎|初生牛犊不怕虎[chu1 sheng1 niu2 du2 bu4 pa4 hu3]
初生之犊不畏虎	chu	hu	see 初生牛犢不怕虎|初生牛犊不怕虎[chu1 sheng1 niu2 du2 bu4 pa4 hu3]
初生牛犊不怕虎	chu	hu	lit. newborn calves do not fear tigers (idiom); fig. the young are fearless
初等代数	chu	shu	elementary algebra
初等教育	chu	yu	primary education; junior school education
初级中学	chu	xue	junior high school; junior middle school; lower secondary school
初级小学	chu	xue	lower elementary school
初试身手	chu	shou	to have a try; to try one's hand; initial foray
初露头角	chu	jiao	lit. to first show one's horns (idiom); fig. a first show of emerging talent; first sign of emerging talent; budding genius
初露才华	chu	hua	first sign of budding talent; to display one's ability for the first time
初露锋芒	chu	mang	first sign of budding talent; to display one's ability for the first time
删简压缩	shan	suo	to simplify and condense (a text); abridged
判例法	pan	fa	case law
判别式	pan	shi	(math.) discriminant (e.g. b²-4ac in the formula for the roots of a quadratic equation)
判断力	pan	li	ability to judge; judgment
判断语	pan	yu	predicate
判若两人	pan	ren	to be a different person; not to be one's usual self
判若云泥	pan	ni	as different as heaven and earth (idiom); worlds apart
刨丝器	bao	qi	grater; shredder
刨根儿	pao	r	erhua variant of 刨根[pao2 gen1]
刨根问底	pao	di	to dig up roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
刨笔刀	bao	dao	pencil sharpener
刨花板	bao	ban	particle board; chipboard
利乐包	li	bao	carton (e.g. for milk or juice); Tetra Pak
利什曼病	li	bing	leishmaniasis (medicine)
利他主义	li	yi	altruism
利他林	li	lin	Ritalin (brand name); methylphenidate (stimulant drug used to treat ADHD)
利他灵	li	ling	Ritalin (brand name); methylphenidate (stimulant drug used to treat ADHD); also written 利他林[Li4 ta1 lin2]
利他能	li	neng	Ritalin (brand name); methylphenidate (stimulant drug used to treat ADHD); also written 利他林[Li4 ta1 lin2]
利他行为	li	wei	altruistic behavior
利令智昏	li	hun	to lose one's head through material greed (idiom)
利伯曼	li	man	Liberman, Lieberman or Liebermann (name)
利伯维尔	li	er	Libreville, capital of Gabon
利勒哈默尔	li	er	Lillehammer (city in Norway)
利口酒	li	jiu	(loanword) liqueur
利古里亚	li	ya	Liguria, northwest Italy
利国利民	li	min	to benefit both the country and the people
利多卡因	li	yin	(loanword) lidocaine
利奈唑胺	li	an	Linezolid, a synthetic antibiotic
利害关系	li	xi	stake; vital interest; concern
利害关系人	li	ren	stakeholder; interested party; interested person
利害关系方	li	fang	interested party
利害冲突	li	tu	conflict of interest
利害攸关	li	guan	to be of vital interest
利宾纳	li	na	Ribena
利尿剂	li	ji	diuretic
利川市	li	shi	Lichuan, a county-level city in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
利州区	li	qu	Lizhou, a district of Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
利己主义	li	yi	egoism
利得税	li	shui	profit tax
利息率	li	lv	interest rate
利未记	li	ji	Book of Leviticus; Third Book of Moses
利欲心	li	xin	cupidity
利欲熏心	li	xin	blinded by greed (idiom)
利比亚	li	ya	Libya
利比里亚	li	ya	Liberia
利津县	li	xian	Lijin, a county in Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
利润率	li	lv	profit margin
利滚利	li	li	compound interest (esp. in loans, snowballing debt)
利物浦	li	pu	Liverpool (England)
利玛窦	li	dou	Matteo Ricci (1552-1610), Jesuit missionary and translator in Ming China
利益冲突	li	tu	conflict of interest
利益输送	li	song	to make use of one's position to gain profit for oneself or one's associates
利益集团	li	tuan	interest group
利眠宁	li	ning	chlordiazepoxide; (trade name) Librium (loanword)
利纳克斯	li	si	Linux (operating systems)
利维坦	li	tan	(loanword) leviathan
利辛县	li	xian	Lixin, a county in Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
利通区	li	qu	Litong, a district of Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
利隆圭	li	gui	Lilongwe, capital of Malawi
利雅得	li	de	Riyadh, capital of Saudi Arabia
利雅德	li	de	Riyadh, capital of Saudi Arabia (Tw)
利马索尔	li	er	Limassol, Cyprus; Lemesos
利默里克	li	ke	Limerick, Ireland
别人牵驴你拔橛子	bie	zi	lit. someone else stole the donkey; you only pulled up the stake it was tethered to (idiom); fig. you're the least culpable, but you're the one who gets the blame
别具一格	bie	ge	having a unique or distinctive style
别具匠心	bie	xin	to show ingenuity; (of a design) clever; brilliantly conceived
别具只眼	bie	yan	see 獨具隻眼|独具只眼[du2 ju4 zhi1 yan3]
别出心裁	bie	cai	to hit on sth new (idiom); to display originality; to adopt an original approach
别动队	bie	dui	special detachment; commando; an armed secret agent squad
别太客气	bie	qi	lit. no excessive politeness; Don't mention it!; You're welcome!
别客气	bie	qi	don't mention it; no formalities, please
别开生面	bie	mian	to start sth new or original (idiom); to break a new path; to break fresh ground
别提了	bie	le	say no more; don't bring it up; drop the subject
别无二致	bie	zhi	(idiom) without the slightest difference
别无他法	bie	fa	there is no alternative
别无他物	bie	wu	nothing else
别无选择	bie	ze	to have no other choice
别无长物	bie	wu	to possess nothing except bare necessities; to live a poor or frugal life
别有天地	bie	di	enchanting scenery; beautiful surroundings; world of its own
别有洞天	bie	tian	place of charm and beauty; scenery of exceptional charm; completely different world
别有用心	bie	xin	to have an ulterior motive (idiom)
别有韵味	bie	wei	to have quite a lasting charm
别来无恙	bie	yang	(literary) I trust you have been well since we last met
别树一帜	bie	zhi	lit. to fly one's banner on a solitary tree (idiom); fig. to act as a loner; to stand out; to develop one's own school
别树一旗	bie	qi	lit. to fly one's banner on a solitary tree (idiom); fig. to act as a loner; to stand out; to develop one's own school
别苗头	bie	tou	(dialect) to compete with; to pit oneself against
别赫捷列夫	bie	fu	Vladimir Mikhailovich Bekhterev (1857-1927), Russian neurologist and psychiatrist
刮刮乐	gua	le	scratch-and-win lottery
刮刮卡	gua	ka	lottery scratchcard
刮刮叫	gua	jiao	variant of 呱呱叫[gua1 gua1 jiao4]
刮皮刀	gua	dao	peeler; potato peeler
刮目相待	gua	dai	see 刮目相看[gua1 mu4 xiang1 kan4]
刮目相看	gua	kan	to have a whole new level of respect for sb or sth; to sit up and take notice (of sb's improved performance etc)
刮胡刀	gua	dao	razor
刮胡子	gua	zi	to shave (facial hair)
到不行	dao	xing	extremely; incredibly
到什么山上唱什么歌	dao	ge	lit. whatever mountain one is on, one should sing its songs (idiom); fig. when in Rome, do as the Romans do
到头来	dao	lai	in the end; finally; as a result
到岸价	dao	jia	cost, insurance, and freight (CIF) (transportation)
到府服务	dao	wu	(Tw) to provide a service at the customer's home; to make a house call
到手软	dao	ruan	(do a manual task) until one's hands go limp with exhaustion
到时候	dao	hou	when the moment comes; at that time
到期收益率	dao	lv	(finance) yield to maturity (YTM)
到期日	dao	ri	due date; expiry date; maturity date
到此一游	dao	you	(used in graffiti) "... was here"
到此为止	dao	zhi	to stop at this point; to end here; to call it a day
到现在	dao	zai	up until now; to date
到目前为止	dao	zhi	until now; so far
到达大厅	dao	ting	arrival hall
到那个时候	dao	hou	until this moment
制作人	zhi	ren	(entertainment industry) producer
制作商	zhi	shang	maker; manufacturer
制作者	zhi	zhe	producer; maker; creator
制冰机	zhi	ji	ice maker
制冷剂	zhi	ji	refrigerant
制动器	zhi	qi	brake
制动踏板	zhi	ban	brake pedal
制度化	zhi	hua	systematization
制式化	zhi	hua	standardization
制成品	zhi	pin	manufactured goods; finished product
制服呢	zhi	ni	(textiles) uniform coating; durable, warm fabric used for uniforms
制服店	zhi	dian	(Tw) nightlife venue where hostesses wear themed uniforms (e.g. nurse, student, maid etc), often featuring a more openly flirtatious or physically intimate style of service
制氧机	zhi	ji	oxygen concentrator
制片人	zhi	ren	film producer
制片厂	zhi	chang	film studio
制空权	zhi	quan	air supremacy; air superiority
制药业	zhi	ye	pharmaceutical industry
制药企业	zhi	ye	pharmaceutical company
制药厂	zhi	chang	pharmaceutical company; drugs manufacturing factory
制造业	zhi	ye	manufacturing industry
制造业者	zhi	zhe	manufacturer
制造厂	zhi	chang	manufacturing plant; factory
制造商	zhi	shang	manufacturing company
制造者	zhi	zhe	maker
制酸剂	zhi	ji	antacid (medicine)
制陶工人	zhi	ren	potter
制鞋匠	zhi	jiang	shoemaker; cobbler
制鞋工人	zhi	ren	shoemaker; cobbler
制高点	zhi	dian	(military) high ground; vantage point (providing a good view); commanding position (providing strategic advantage)
刷手机	shua	ji	to scroll on one's smartphone; to check one's smartphone (for updates on social media etc); to swipe one's smartphone (as a substitute for a payment card etc)
刷新率	shua	lv	refresh rate (of a screen)
刷新纪录	shua	lu	to set a new record
刹不住	sha	zhu	unable to brake (stop)
刹车灯	sha	deng	brake light
刺丝囊	ci	nang	nematocyst; capsule of nettle cells of medusa or anemone
刺丝胞	ci	bao	cnidocyte; nettle cell of medusa or anemone
刺五加	ci	jia	manyprickle (Acanthopanax senticosus), root used in TCM
刺儿头	ci	tou	troublesome person; difficult person to deal with
刺儿李	ci	li	gooseberry
刺儿话	ci	hua	biting words; stinging words
刺刺不休	ci	xiu	to talk incessantly; to chatter on and on
刺激剂	ci	ji	irritant agent
刺激性	ci	xing	thrilling; exciting; stimulating
刺激物	ci	wu	stimulus
刺绣品	ci	pin	embroidery
刺胞动物	ci	wu	cnidarian (member of the phylum Cnidaria, including jellyfish and corals)
刺花纹	ci	wen	to tattoo
刺芹菇	ci	gu	king trumpet mushroom (Pleurotus eryngii)
刺钢丝	ci	si	barbed wire
刻不容缓	ke	huan	to brook no delay; to demand immediate action
刻度盘	ke	pan	dial (e.g. of a radio etc)
刻录机	ke	ji	disk burner
刻意为之	ke	zhi	to make a conscious effort; to do something deliberately
刻意求工	ke	gong	assiduous and painstaking
刻板印象	ke	xiang	stereotype
刻舟求剑	ke	jian	lit. a notch on the side of a boat to locate a sword dropped overboard (idiom); fig. an action made pointless by changed circumstances
刻苦耐劳	ke	lao	to bear hardships and work hard (idiom); assiduous and long-suffering; hard-working and capable of overcoming adversity
刻苦钻研	ke	yan	to study diligently
刻薄寡恩	ke	en	harsh and merciless (idiom)
刻骨相思	ke	si	deep-seated lovesickness (idiom)
刻骨铭心	ke	xin	lit. carved in bones and engraved in the heart (idiom); fig. etched in one's memory; unforgettable
刻鹄类鹜	ke	wu	to aim to carve a swan and get a semblance of a duck (idiom); to fail utterly in trying to copy something; to get a reasonably good, if not perfect, result
刽子手	gui	shou	executioner; headsman; slaughterer
剁手党	duo	dang	online shopaholic
剁手节	duo	jie	(jocular) a day of frenetic online spending, such as Singles' Day
剂量当量	ji	liang	dose equivalent
剃光头	ti	tou	to shave the whole head clean; crushing defeat
剃发令	ti	ling	the Qing order to all men to shave their heads but keep a queue, first ordered in 1646
剃发留辫	ti	bian	to shave the head but keep the queue
剃头挑子一头热	ti	re	lit. only one end of the barber's pole is hot (idiom); fig. one-sided enthusiasm; one party is interested, but the other, not so much
剃须刀	ti	dao	shaver; razor
剃须膏	ti	gao	shaving cream
削职为民	xue	min	demotion to commoner (idiom)
削足适履	xue	lv	to cut the feet to fit the shoes (idiom); to force sth to fit (as to a Procrustean bed); impractical or inelegant solution
削铅笔	xiao	bi	to sharpen a pencil
削铅笔机	xiao	ji	pencil sharpener (mechanical or electric)
前一向	qian	xiang	lately; in the recent past
前一天	qian	tian	the day before (an event)
前三甲	qian	jia	top three
前不久	qian	jiu	not long ago; not long before
前不巴村后不巴店	qian	dian	see 前不著村，後不著店|前不着村，后不着店[qian2 bu4 zhao2 cun1 , hou4 bu4 zhao2 dian4]
前不着村后不着店	qian	dian	lit. no village ahead and no inn behind (idiom); fig. to be stranded in the middle of nowhere; to be in a predicament
前世姻缘	qian	yuan	a marriage predestined in a former life (idiom)
前事不忘后事之师	qian	shi	don't forget past events, they can guide you in future (idiom); benefit from past experience
前人栽树后人乘凉	qian	liang	to enjoy the benefits of the hard work of one's predecessors. (idiom)
前仆后继	qian	ji	one falls, the next follows (idiom); stepping into the breach to replace fallen comrades; advancing wave upon wave
前仰后合	qian	he	to sway to and fro; to rock back and forth
前信号灯	qian	deng	car front indicator
前俯后仰	qian	yang	to rock one's body backward and forward; to be convulsed (with laughter etc)
前倨后恭	qian	gong	to switch from arrogance to deference (idiom)
前几天	qian	tian	a few days ago; a few days before; the past few days
前凸后翘	qian	qiao	(of a woman) to have nice curves; buxom; shapely
前列腺	qian	xian	prostate gland
前列腺炎	qian	yan	prostatitis
前列腺素	qian	su	prostaglandin
前功尽弃	qian	qi	to waste all one's previous efforts (idiom); all that has been achieved goes down the drain
前半夜	qian	ye	first half of the night (from nightfall to midnight)
前半天	qian	tian	morning; a.m.; first half of the day
前半天儿	qian	r	erhua variant of 前半天[qian2 ban4 tian1]
前半晌	qian	shang	morning; a.m.; first half of the day
前半晌儿	qian	r	erhua variant of 前半晌[qian2 ban4 shang3]
前半生	qian	sheng	first half of one's life
前后文	qian	wen	context; the surrounding words; same as 上下文
前哨战	qian	zhan	skirmish
前因后果	qian	guo	cause and effects (idiom); entire process of development
前备箱	qian	xiang	front trunk (of a car); frunk
前大灯	qian	deng	headlight
前奏曲	qian	qu	prelude (music)
前女友	qian	you	ex-girlfriend
前寒武纪	qian	ji	pre-Cambrian, geological period before c. 540m years ago
前庭窗	qian	chuang	fenestra vestibuli (of inner ear)
前怕狼后怕虎	qian	hu	lit. to fear the wolf in front and the tiger behind (idiom); fig. to be full of needless fears; reds under the beds
前总理	qian	li	former prime minister
前总统	qian	tong	former president
前意识	qian	shi	preconscious; preconsciousness
前房角	qian	jiao	anterior chamber (the front chamber of the eye)
前所未有	qian	you	(idiom) unprecedented
前所未见	qian	jian	unprecedented; never seen before
前所未闻	qian	wen	(idiom) unheard-of; unprecedented
前掠翼	qian	yi	swept-forward wing (on jet fighter)
前提条件	qian	jian	preconditions
前方高能	qian	neng	(slang) Something awesome is about to happen! (originally, in a Japanese space battleship anime, it meant "Danger! High energy up ahead!" — a warning to either prepare for battle or take evasive action)
前无古人	qian	ren	(idiom) unprecedented; unheard of
前无古人后无来者	qian	zhe	there has never been and never will be another person like this (idiom); never done before and unlikely to be matched in the future; peerless
前景可期	qian	qi	to have a promising future; to have bright prospects
前段时间	qian	jian	recently
前汉书	qian	shu	History of the Former Han Dynasty, second of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed by Ban Gu 班固[Ban1 Gu4] in 82 during Eastern Han (later Han), 100 scrolls
前照灯	qian	deng	(vehicle) headlight
前甲板	qian	ban	forward deck (of a boat)
前男友	qian	you	ex-boyfriend
前瞻性	qian	xing	farsightedness; perspicacity; prescience
前移式叉车	qian	che	reach truck
前程远大	qian	da	to have a future full of promise
前空翻	qian	fan	(acrobatics) front flip
前端总线	qian	xian	(computing) front-side bus (FSB)
前缘未了	qian	liao	one's predestined fate is yet to be fulfilled (idiom)
前置修饰语	qian	yu	premodifier (grammar)
前置摄像头	qian	tou	front-facing camera
前置词	qian	ci	preposition
前胸贴后背	qian	bei	(lit.) chest sticking to back; (fig.) famished; (of several persons) packed chest to back
前臼齿	qian	chi	premolar tooth (immediately behind canine teeth in some mammals)
前苏联	qian	lian	former Soviet Union
前赴后继	qian	ji	to advance dauntlessly in wave upon wave (idiom)
前车之覆后车之鉴	qian	jian	lit. the cart in front overturns, a warning to the following cart (idiom); fig. draw lesson from the failure of one's predecessor; learn from past mistake; once bitten twice shy
前车之鉴	qian	jian	(lit.) a warning taken from the overturned cart ahead (idiom); (fig.) lesson learned from past mistakes or failures
前边儿	qian	r	erhua variant of 前邊|前边[qian2 bian5]
前进区	qian	qu	Qianjin, a district of Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
前途无量	qian	liang	to have boundless prospects
前途未卜	qian	bu	hanging in the balance; the future is hard to forecast; ¿Qué serà?
前途渺茫	qian	mang	not knowing what to do next; at a loose end
前郭县	qian	xian	see 前郭爾羅斯蒙古族自治縣|前郭尔罗斯蒙古族自治县[Qian2 guo1 er3 Luo2 si1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
前郭尔	qian	er	see 前郭爾羅斯蒙古族自治縣|前郭尔罗斯蒙古族自治县[Qian2 guo1 er3 Luo2 si1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
前郭尔县	qian	xian	see 前郭爾羅斯蒙古族自治縣|前郭尔罗斯蒙古族自治县[Qian2 guo1 er3 Luo2 si1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
前金区	qian	qu	Cianjin, a district of Kaohsiung City 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
前锋区	qian	qu	Qianfeng, a district of Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
前锯肌	qian	ji	serratus anterior muscle (upper sides of the chest)
前镇区	qian	qu	Cianjhen, a district of Kaohsiung City 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
前门打虎后门打狼	qian	lang	to beat a tiger from the front door, only to have a wolf come in at the back (idiom); fig. facing one problem after another
前门拒虎后门进狼	qian	lang	to beat a tiger from the front door, only to have a wolf come in at the back (idiom); fig. facing one problem after another
前额叶皮质	qian	zhi	prefrontal cortex (PFC)
前首相	qian	xiang	former prime minister
前鼻音	qian	yin	alveolar nasal; consonant n produced in the nose with the tongue against the alveolar ridge
剑嘴鹛	jian	mei	(bird species of China) slender-billed scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus superciliaris)
剑川县	jian	xian	Jianchuan, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
剑拔弩张	jian	zhang	lit. with swords drawn and bows bent (idiom); fig. a state of mutual hostility; at daggers drawn
剑桥大学	jian	xue	University of Cambridge
剑河县	jian	xian	Jianhe, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
剑眉星目	jian	mu	(idiom) straight, thick, upward-inclined eyebrows and eyes that are bright and full of spirit; striking, handsome features; dashing, heroic appearance
剑走偏锋	jian	feng	the sword moves with side stroke (modern idiom); fig. unexpected winning move; unconventional gambit
剑走蜻蛉	jian	ling	the sword moves like a dragon-fly (modern idiom); fig. unexpected winning move; unconventional gambit
剑阁县	jian	xian	Jiange, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
剑鱼座	jian	zuo	Dorado (constellation)
剑齿虎	jian	hu	saber-toothed tiger
剖宫产	pou	chan	birth by caesarean section
剖宫产手术	pou	shu	cesarean section
剖肝沥胆	pou	dan	see 披肝瀝膽|披肝沥胆[pi1 gan1 li4 dan3]
剖腹产	pou	chan	cesarean birth
剖腹产手术	pou	shu	cesarean section
剖腹自杀	pou	sha	hara-kiri
剖腹藏珠	pou	zhu	lit. cutting one's stomach to hide a pearl (idiom); fig. wasting a lot of effort on trivialities
剖视图	pou	tu	section view; cutaway view
剖解图	pou	tu	cutaway diagram
剥削者	bo	zhe	exploiter (of labor)
剥削阶级	bo	ji	exploiting class (in Marxist theory)
剥皮器	bo	qi	peeler (e.g. for vegetables)
剥皮钳	bao	qian	wire stripper
剥采比	bo	bi	stripping-to-ore ratio; stripping ratio
剧作家	ju	jia	playwright
剧本杀	ju	sha	murder mystery game (role-playing game)
剩余价值	sheng	zhi	(economics) surplus value
剩余定理	sheng	li	the Remainder Theorem
剩余放射性	sheng	xing	residual radioactivity
剩余辐射	sheng	she	residual radiation
剪刀差	jian	cha	(economics) price scissors
剪刀手	jian	shou	V sign (hand gesture)
剪刀石头布	jian	bu	rock-paper-scissors (game)
剪切力	jian	li	shear; shearing force
剪切形变	jian	bian	shearing; shear deformation
剪切板	jian	ban	(computing) clipboard
剪嘴鸥	jian	ou	(bird species of China) Indian skimmer (Rynchops albicollis)
剪头发	jian	fa	(to get a) haircut
剪应力	jian	li	shear stress
剪接体	jian	ti	(genetics) spliceosome
剪草机	jian	ji	lawnmower
剪草除根	jian	gen	lit. cut grass and pull out roots (idiom); fig. to destroy root and branch; to eradicate
剪贴板	jian	ban	(computing) clipboard
剪贴簿	jian	bu	scrapbook
副主任	fu	ren	deputy director; assistant head
副主席	fu	xi	vice-chairperson
副书记	fu	ji	deputy secretary
副产品	fu	pin	by-product
副产物	fu	wu	by-product (lit. and fig.)
副伤寒	fu	han	paratyphoid fever
副作用	fu	yong	side effect
副司令	fu	ling	second in command
副国务卿	fu	qing	undersecretary of state
副地级市	fu	shi	sub-prefecture-level city (county level division, administered by province, not under a prefecture)
副学士	fu	shi	associate's degree
副州长	fu	zhang	deputy governor (of a province or colony); lieutenant governor of US state
副市长	fu	zhang	deputy mayor
副总理	fu	li	vice-premier; vice prime minister; deputy prime minister
副总统	fu	tong	vice-president
副总裁	fu	cai	vice-chairman (of an organization); vice president (of a company); deputy governor (of a bank)
副教授	fu	shou	associate professor (university post)
副标题	fu	ti	subtitle (of a book etc); subheading
副校长	fu	zhang	vice-principal
副档名	fu	ming	(file) extension (computing) (Tw)
副法向量	fu	liang	binormal vector (to a space curve)
副热带	fu	dai	subtropical (zone or climate)
副甲状腺	fu	xian	parathyroid (Tw)
副甲状腺素	fu	su	parathyroid hormone (Tw)
副省级	fu	ji	sub-provincial (not provincial status, but independent)
副省级城市	fu	shi	subprovincial city (having independent economic status within a province)
副秘书长	fu	zhang	vice-secretary
副经理	fu	li	deputy director; assistant manager
副议长	fu	zhang	vice-chairman
副部长	fu	zhang	assistant (government) minister
副院长	fu	zhang	deputy chair of board; vice-president (of a university etc)
副食品	fu	pin	non-staple foods; (Tw) solids (food for infants other than breast milk and formula)
副驾驶	fu	shi	copilot; co-driver (abbr. for 副駕駛員|副驾驶员[fu4 jia4 shi3 yuan2]); front passenger seat (abbr. for 副駕駛座|副驾驶座[fu4 jia4 shi3 zuo4])
副驾驶员	fu	yuan	copilot; co-driver
副驾驶座	fu	zuo	front passenger seat
副黏液病毒	fu	du	paramyxovirus
割包皮	ge	pi	to circumcise
割股疗亲	ge	qin	to cut flesh from one's thigh to nourish a sick parent (idiom); filial thigh-cutting
割草机	ge	ji	lawn mower (machine)
割袍断义	ge	yi	to rip one's robe as a sign of repudiating a sworn brotherhood (idiom); to break all friendly ties
割韭菜	ge	cai	(fig.) (coll.) to fleece a group of people repeatedly (esp. small investors, consumers or fans), treating them as an endlessly renewable resource to harvest for profit
割鸡焉用牛刀	ge	dao	see 殺雞焉用牛刀|杀鸡焉用牛刀[sha1 ji1 yan1 yong4 niu2 dao1]
劈哩啪啦	pi	la	variant of 噼里啪啦[pi1 li5 pa1 la1]
劈头盖脸	pi	lian	lit. splitting the head and covering the face (idiom); fig. pelting (with rain etc); showering down
劈情操	pi	cao	to have a friendly chat (Shanghai)
劈挂拳	pi	quan	Piguaquan "Chop-Hanging Fist" (Chinese Martial Art)
劈空扳害	pi	hai	damaged by groundless slander (idiom)
劈里啪啦	pi	la	variant of 噼里啪啦[pi1 li5 pa1 la1]
力不从心	li	xin	(idiom) to lack the ability to do what one would wish
力不胜任	li	ren	not to be up to the task (idiom); incompetent
力争上游	li	you	to strive for mastery (idiom); aiming for the best result; to have high ambitions
力传递	li	di	mechanical transmission
力保健	li	jian	Lipovitan (energy drink)
力大无比	li	bi	having matchless strength
力大无穷	li	qiong	extraordinary strength; super strong; strong as an ox
力娇酒	li	jiu	(loanword) liqueur
力学传递	li	di	mechanical transmission
力尽神危	li	wei	(idiom) physically and mentally exhausted
力所不及	li	ji	beyond one's power (to do sth)
力所能及	li	ji	as far as one's capabilities extend (idiom); to the best of one's ability; within one's powers
力挽狂澜	li	lan	to pull strongly against a crazy tide (idiom); fig. to try hard to save a desperate crisis
力排众议	li	yi	to stand one's ground against the opinion of the masses (idiom)
力有未逮	li	dai	beyond one's reach or power (to do sth)
力比多	li	duo	(loanword) libido
力量均衡	li	heng	balance of power
劝农使	quan	shi	commissioner for the encouragement of agriculture, an official title in imperial China
劝善惩恶	quan	e	to encourage virtue and punish evil (idiom); fig. poetic justice; you get what's coming to you
办不到	ban	dao	cannot be done; not feasible; impossible to accomplish
办事处	ban	chu	office; agency; bureau
办公厅	ban	ting	general office
办公地址	ban	zhi	business address; office address
办公大楼	ban	lou	office building
办公室	ban	shi	office; business premises
办公时间	ban	jian	office hours
办公桌	ban	zhuo	office desk
办公楼	ban	lou	office building; CL:座[zuo4],棟|栋[dong4]
办公自动化	ban	hua	office automation
办年货	ban	huo	to shop in preparation for Chinese New Year
办酒席	ban	xi	to prepare a feast
功不可没	gong	mo	one's contributions cannot go unnoticed (idiom)
功亏一篑	gong	kui	lit. to ruin the enterprise for the sake of one basketful; to fail through lack of a final effort; to spoil the ship for a ha'penny worth of tar (idiom)
功利主义	gong	yi	utilitarianism
功到自然成	gong	cheng	effort will undoubtedly lead to success (idiom)
功劳簿	gong	bu	record of achievements; (fig.) laurels (as sth one rests on)
功名利禄	gong	lu	position and wealth (idiom); rank, fame and fortune
功夫流感	gong	gan	Chinese translation of "kung flu", a term used by US President Trump in 2020 to refer to COVID-19 as a "Chinese" disease
功夫片	gong	pian	kung fu movie
功夫球	gong	qiu	see 鐵球|铁球[tie3 qiu2]
功夫病毒	gong	du	kung flu
功夫茶	gong	cha	very concentrated type of tea drunk in Chaozhou, Fujian and Taiwan
功完行满	gong	man	to fully achieve one's ambitions (idiom)
功德圆满	gong	man	virtuous achievements come to their successful conclusion (idiom)
功德无量	gong	liang	no end of virtuous achievements (idiom); boundless beneficence
功成不居	gong	ju	not to claim personal credit for achievement (idiom)
功成名就	gong	jiu	to win success and recognition (idiom)
功能团	gong	tuan	(chemistry) functional group
功能性	gong	xing	functionality
功能性磁共振成像	gong	xiang	functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)
功能机	gong	ji	feature phone
功能模块	gong	kuai	functional module
功能磁共振成像术	gong	shu	functional magnetic resonance imaging (fMRI)
功能群	gong	qun	(ecology) functional group
功能表	gong	biao	menu (software)
功能词	gong	ci	function word
功能集	gong	ji	function library
功能饮料	gong	liao	functional beverage
功莫大焉	gong	yan	no greater contribution has been made than this (idiom)
功败垂成	gong	cheng	to fail within sight of success (idiom); last-minute failure; to fall at the last hurdle; snatching defeat from the jaws of victory
功高不赏	gong	shang	high merit that one can never repay (idiom); invaluable achievements
功高望重	gong	zhong	high merit and worthy prospects (idiom)
功高盖主	gong	zhu	lit. one's accomplishments overshadow the authority of the sovereign (idiom); fig. to be so influential that one rivals one's leader
加人一等	jia	deng	a cut above; top quality
加俾额尔	jia	er	Gabriel (biblical name)
加值型网路	jia	lu	value added network; VAN
加兹尼	jia	ni	Ghazni (Afghan province)
加兹尼省	jia	sheng	Ghazni or Ghaznah province of Afghanistan
加农炮	jia	pao	(loanword) cannon
加减乘除	jia	chu	(idiom) addition, subtraction, multiplication and division: the four basic operations of arithmetic
加减号	jia	hao	plus-minus sign (±); plus and minus signs (+ and -)
加利利	jia	li	Galilee (in biblical Palestine)
加利福尼亚	jia	ya	California
加利福尼亚大学	jia	xue	University of California
加利福尼亚州	jia	zhou	California
加利福尼亚理工学院	jia	yuan	California Institute of Technology (Caltech)
加利肋亚	jia	ya	Galilee (in biblical Palestine)
加利西亚	jia	ya	Galicia, province and former kingdom of northwest Spain
加加林	jia	lin	Yuri Gagarin (1934-1968), Russian cosmonaut, first human in space
加劲儿	jia	r	erhua variant of 加勁|加劲[jia1 jin4]
加勒比	jia	bi	Caribbean
加勒比国家联盟	jia	meng	Association of Caribbean States
加勒比海	jia	hai	Caribbean Sea
加压釜	jia	fu	pressure chamber; pressurized cauldron
加吉鱼	jia	yu	porgy (Pagrosomus major)
加塞儿	jia	r	to push into a line out of turn; to cut in line; to jump the queue
加多宝	jia	bao	JDB (Chinese beverage company)
加大力度	jia	du	to try harder; to redouble one's efforts
加大努力	jia	li	to try harder; to redouble one's efforts
加大油门	jia	men	to accelerate; to step on the gas
加官晋爵	jia	jue	to confer a title an official position
加官晋级	jia	ji	to receive a promotion; to rise in rank
加官进位	jia	wei	promotion in official post and salary raise (idiom)
加官进爵	jia	jue	promotion to the nobility (idiom)
加官进禄	jia	lu	promotion in official post and salary raise (idiom)
加密套接字协议层	jia	ceng	Secure Sockets Layer (SSL) (computing)
加密货币	jia	bi	cryptocurrency
加封官阶	jia	jie	to confer additional titles on a nobleman
加尔各答	jia	da	Calcutta (India)
加尔文	jia	wen	Calvin (1509-1564), French protestant reformer
加州大学	jia	xue	University of California (abbr. for 加利福尼亞大學|加利福尼亚大学[Jia1 li4 fu2 ni2 ya4 Da4 xue2])
加州理工学院	jia	yuan	California Institute of Technology (Caltech); abbr. for 加利福尼亞理工學院|加利福尼亚理工学院
加工厂	jia	chang	processing plant
加工成本	jia	ben	processing cost
加工贸易	jia	yi	process trade; trade involving assembly
加强针	jia	zhen	(vaccine) booster shot
加德士	jia	shi	Caltex (petroleum brand name)
加德满都	jia	du	Kathmandu, capital of Nepal
加德纳	jia	na	Gardner (name)
加德西	jia	xi	Gardasil (HPV vaccine)
加护病房	jia	fang	(Tw) intensive care unit (ICU)
加拉加斯	jia	si	Caracas, capital of Venezuela
加拉太书	jia	shu	Epistle of St Paul to the Galatians
加拉巴哥斯	jia	si	Galapagos
加拉巴哥斯群岛	jia	dao	Galapagos Islands
加拉帕戈斯群岛	jia	dao	Galapagos Islands
加拉罕	jia	han	Leo Karakhan (1889-1937), Soviet ambassador to China 1921-26, executed in Stalin's 1937 purge
加拿大	jia	da	Canada
加拿大太平洋铁路	jia	lu	Canadian Pacific Railway
加拿大皇家	jia	jia	HMCS (Her Majesty's Canadian Ship); prefix for Canadian Navy Vessels
加拿大皇家海军	jia	jun	Royal Canadian Navy
加拿大雁	jia	yan	(bird species of China) cackling goose (Branta hutchinsii)
加料钢琴	jia	qin	prepared piano
加时赛	jia	sai	(sports) overtime; extra time; play-off
加权平均	jia	jun	weighted average
加来海峡	jia	xia	Strait of Calais in the English channel; Strait of Dover; Pas-de-Calais, département of France
加查县	jia	xian	Gyaca, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
加格达奇	jia	qi	see 加格達奇區|加格达奇区[Jia1 ge2 da2 qi2 Qu1]
加格达奇区	jia	qu	Jiagedaqi, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
加氢油	jia	you	hydrogenated oil
加沃特	jia	te	(loanword) gavotte, French dance popular in 18th century
加沙地带	jia	dai	Gaza Strip
加油工	jia	gong	gas station attendant
加油枪	jia	qiang	fuel nozzle
加油添醋	jia	cu	to add interest (to a story); to sex up
加油站	jia	zhan	gas station
加泰罗尼亚	jia	ya	Catalonia
加湿器	jia	qi	humidifier
加特林	jia	lin	Gatling (name); Richard J. Gatling (1818-1903), inventor of the Gatling gun
加特林机枪	jia	qiang	Gatling gun
加班费	jia	fei	overtime pay
加百列	jia	lie	Gabriel (name); Archangel Gabriel of the Annunciation
加的夫	jia	fu	Cardiff
加的斯	jia	si	Cádiz, Spain
加盟店	jia	dian	franchise store
加索尔	jia	er	Gasol (name); Pau Gasol (1980-), former Spanish professional basketball player (NBA); Marc Gasol (1985-), Spanish professional basketball player
加罗林群岛	jia	dao	Caroline Islands
加菲猫	jia	mao	Garfield (the comic-strip cat); (coll.) flat-faced Persian-type cat (esp. an exotic shorthair)
加西亚	jia	ya	Garcia (person name)
加足马力	jia	li	to go at full throttle; (fig.) to go all out; to kick into high gear
加达里	jia	li	Guattari (philosopher)
加速器	jia	qi	accelerator (computing); particle accelerator
加速度	jia	du	acceleration
加速踏板	jia	ban	accelerator pedal
加那利群岛	jia	dao	Canary Islands
加里宁格勒	jia	le	Kaliningrad, town on Baltic now in Russian republic; formerly Königsberg, capital of East Prussia
加里宁格勒州	jia	zhou	Kaliningrad Oblast
加里曼丹	jia	dan	Kalimantan (Indonesian part of the island of Borneo)
加里曼丹岛	jia	dao	Kalimantan island (Indonesian name for Borneo island)
加里波第	jia	di	Guiseppe Garibaldi (1807-1882), Italian military commander and politician
加里肋亚	jia	ya	Galilee
加里肋亚海	jia	hai	Sea of Galilee
加重语气	jia	qi	to give emphasis; with emphasis
加麻大	jia	da	(slang) Canada
务川县	wu	xian	see 務川仡佬族苗族自治縣|务川仡佬族苗族自治县[Wu4 chuan1 Ge1 lao3 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
劣币驱逐良币	lie	bi	bad money drives out good money (economics)
劣迹斑斑	lie	ban	notorious for one's misdeeds
动不动	dong	dong	(typically followed by 就[jiu4]) apt to (lose one's temper, catch a cold etc); at the drop of a hat
动不动就生气	dong	qi	to be quick to take offense; to have a short fuse
动人心魄	dong	po	(idiom) breathtaking; deeply affecting
动作片	dong	pian	action movie; CL:部[bu4]
动力反应堆	dong	dui	power reactor
动力学	dong	xue	dynamics (math.); kinetics
动力系统	dong	tong	propulsion system; (math.) dynamical system
动名词	dong	ci	gerund
动员令	dong	ling	mobilization order
动嘴皮	dong	pi	to move one's lips; to wag one's tongue
动嘴皮儿	dong	r	erhua variant of 動嘴皮|动嘴皮[dong4 zui3 pi2]
动嘴皮子	dong	zi	see 動嘴皮|动嘴皮[dong4 zui3 pi2]
动宾式	dong	shi	verb-object construction
动平衡	dong	heng	dynamic equilibrium; dynamic balancing
动弹不得	dong	de	to be unable to move a single step
动态助词	dong	ci	aspect particle, such as 著|着[zhe5], 了[le5], 過|过[guo4]
动态图形	dong	xing	animated graphics; animation
动态存储器	dong	qi	dynamic memory
动态影像	dong	xiang	video
动态更新	dong	xin	dynamic update (Internet)
动态清零	dong	ling	zero-COVID (policy)
动态网页	dong	ye	dynamic webpage
动态链接库	dong	ku	dynamic-link library (DLL); shared library (computing)
动态雕塑	dong	su	(fine arts) a mobile
动情期	dong	qi	estrus; the rutting season; on heat
动情激素	dong	su	estrogen
动情素	dong	su	estrogen
动感单车	dong	che	spin class; indoor cycling class (a type of group fitness class); exercise bike used in such a class; spin bike
动手动脚	dong	jiao	to come to blows; to paw; to grope
动手术	dong	shu	(of a surgeon) to operate (on sb); (of a patient) to have an operation
动手脚	dong	jiao	(coll.) to tamper with; to mess around with
动植物	dong	wu	plants and animals; flora and fauna
动毫毛	dong	mao	to lay a finger on sb; to harm sb in the slightest way
动物农场	dong	chang	Animal Farm (1945), novel and famous satire on communist revolution by George Orwell 喬治·奧威爾|乔治·奥威尔[Qiao2 zhi4 · Ao4 wei1 er3]
动物分类	dong	lei	classification of animals
动物园	dong	yuan	zoo
动物学	dong	xue	zoological; zoology
动物庄园	dong	yuan	Animal Farm (1945), novel and famous satire on communist revolution by George Orwell 喬治·奧威爾|乔治·奥威尔[Qiao2 zhi4 · Ao4 wei1 er3]; also translated 動物農場|动物农场[Dong4 wu4 Nong2 chang3]
动物性	dong	xing	animacy
动物性饲料	dong	liao	feed made of animal products
动物毒素	dong	su	zootoxin
动物油	dong	you	animal fat
动物淀粉	dong	fen	glycogen
动物界	dong	jie	animal kingdom
动画片	dong	pian	animated film
动真格	dong	ge	to get serious about sth; to pull no punches; to be determined to see sth through
动肝火	dong	huo	to fly into a rage; to lose one's temper
动能车	dong	che	car with a new type of propulsion system (hybrid, hydrogen-powered etc)
动脉瘤	dong	liu	aneurysm
动脉硬化	dong	hua	hardening of the arteries; arteriosclerosis
动脉粥样硬化	dong	hua	atherosclerosis
动脑筋	dong	jin	to use one's brains; to think
动见观瞻	dong	zhan	to be watched closely (idiom)
动词重叠	dong	die	verb reduplication, used to soften tone or indicate a short action (e.g. 試一試|试一试[shi4 yi1 shi4] or 看看[kan4 kan5])
动辄得咎	dong	jiu	faulted at every turn (idiom); can't get anything right
动量词	dong	ci	verbal classifier (in Chinese grammar); measure word applying mainly to verbs
动魄惊心	dong	xin	see 驚心動魄|惊心动魄[jing1 xin1 dong4 po4]
助一臂之力	zhu	li	to lend a helping hand (idiom)
助产士	zhu	shi	midwife
助人为乐	zhu	le	pleasure from helping others (idiom)
助人为快乐之本	zhu	ben	pleasure from helping others
助力车	zhu	che	bicycle or tricycle equipped with a small motor (electric or fuel); (in modern use) electric bicycle; low-powered e-scooter
助动词	zhu	ci	auxiliary verb; modal verb
助动车	zhu	che	low-powered motorized scooter or bike
助听器	zhu	qi	hearing aid
助学贷款	zhu	kuan	student loan
助学金	zhu	jin	student grant; education grant; scholarship
助手席	zhu	xi	front passenger seat (in a car)
助推器	zhu	qi	(rocketry) booster
助推火箭	zhu	jian	booster rocket
助焊剂	zhu	ji	flux (metallurgy)
助熔剂	zhu	ji	flux
助纣为虐	zhu	nve	lit. helping tyrant Zhou 商紂王|商纣王[Shang1 Zhou4 wang2] in his oppression (idiom); fig. to take the side of the evildoer; giving succor to the enemy
助记方法	zhu	fa	mnemonic method
助记符	zhu	fu	mnemonic symbol; mnemonic code
努劲儿	nu	r	to extend; to put forth
努嘴儿	nu	r	erhua variant of 努嘴[nu3 zui3]
努尔哈赤	nu	chi	Nurhaci (1559-1626), founder and first Khan of the Manchu Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1] (from 1616)
努库阿洛法	nu	fa	Nuku'alofa (capital of Tonga)
努比亚	nu	ya	Nubia
努瓜娄发	nu	fa	Nuku'alofa, capital of Tonga (Tw)
努瓦克肖特	nu	te	Nouakchott, capital of Mauritania
努纳武特	nu	te	Nunavut territory, Canada
努美阿	nu	a	Nouméa, capital of New Caledonia
劫后余生	jie	sheng	(idiom) to be a survivor of a calamity
劫富济贫	jie	pin	(idiom) to rob the rich to help the poor
劫持者	jie	zhe	hijacker; kidnapper
劫数难逃	jie	tao	Destiny is inexorable, there is no fleeing it (idiom). Your doom is at hand.
励志哥	li	ge	(coll.) a guy who is admired for having overcome challenges to achieve success
励精图治	li	zhi	(of a ruler) to strive to make one's nation strong and prosperous (idiom)
劲度系数	jin	shu	coefficient of restitution (in Hooke's law)
劳什子	lao	zi	(dialect) nuisance; pain
劳伦斯	lao	si	Lawrence (person name)
劳力士	lao	shi	Rolex (Swiss wristwatch brand)
劳务交换	lao	huan	labor exchanges
劳务人员	lao	yuan	laborer; service worker (typically employed on a contractual or temporary basis)
劳务合同	lao	tong	service contract
劳务市场	lao	chang	labor market
劳务费	lao	fei	service charge; service fee
劳动人民	lao	min	working people; the workers of Socialist theory or of the glorious Chinese past
劳动保险	lao	xian	labor insurance
劳动力	lao	li	labor force; manpower
劳动合同	lao	tong	labor contract; contract between employer and employees governing wages and conditions
劳动报	lao	bao	Trud (Russian newspaper)
劳动改造	lao	zao	reeducation through labor; laogai (prison camp)
劳动教养	lao	yang	reeducation through labor
劳动新闻	lao	wen	Rodong Sinmun (Workers' news), the official newspaper of the North Korean WPK's Central Committee
劳动模范	lao	fan	model worker
劳动者	lao	zhe	worker; laborer
劳动能力	lao	li	ability to work
劳动节	lao	jie	International Labor Day (May Day)
劳动营	lao	ying	labor camp; prison camp with hard labor
劳劳叨叨	lao	dao	variant of 嘮嘮叨叨|唠唠叨叨[lao2 lao5 dao1 dao1]
劳埃德	lao	de	Lloyd (name); Lloyd's (London-based insurance group)
劳委会	lao	hui	labor committee; abbr. for 勞動委員會|劳动委员会
劳师动众	lao	zhong	(idiom) to go to a great deal of trouble; to mobilize considerable manpower and resources (often unnecessarily)
劳心劳力	lao	li	to tax one's mind and body; demanding (work); dedicated (worker)
劳心苦思	lao	si	to rack one's brains; to think hard
劳拉西泮	lao	pan	lorazepam
劳改营	lao	ying	correctional labor camp
劳教所	lao	suo	correctional institution; labor camp
劳斯莱斯	lao	si	Rolls-Royce
劳民伤财	lao	cai	(idiom) to waste both manpower and resources
劳燕分飞	lao	fei	the shrike and the swallow fly in different directions (idiom); (usually of a couple) to part from each other
劳而无功	lao	gong	to work hard while accomplishing little; to toil to no avail
劳资关系	lao	xi	industrial relations; relations between labor and capital
劳逸结合	lao	he	to strike a balance between work and rest (idiom)
劳雇关系	lao	xi	relations between labor and employer; industrial relations
势不两立	shi	li	the two cannot exist together (idiom); irreconcilable differences; incompatible standpoints
势不可当	shi	dang	impossible to resist (idiom); an irresistible force
势不可挡	shi	dang	see 勢不可當|势不可当[shi4 bu4 ke3 dang1]
势利小人	shi	ren	snob
势利眼	shi	yan	snobbish; a snob
势单力薄	shi	bo	(idiom) lacking strength and support
势在必得	shi	de	to be determined to win (idiom)
势在必行	shi	xing	circumstances require action (idiom); absolutely necessary; imperative
势均力敌	shi	di	(idiom) evenly matched
势如破竹	shi	zhu	like a hot knife through butter (idiom); with irresistible force
势成骑虎	shi	hu	if you ride a tiger, it's hard to get off (idiom); fig. impossible to stop halfway
勃兰登堡	bo	bao	Brandenburg
勃列日涅夫	bo	fu	Leonid Brezhnev (1906-1982), Soviet statesman, General Secretary of the Communist Party of the USSR 1966-1982
勃利县	bo	xian	Boli, a county in Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
勃固山脉	bo	mai	Pegu Yoma (mountain range) of south central Myanmar (Burma), separating Irrawaddy and Sittang basins
勃固河	bo	he	Pegu River of south central Myanmar (Burma)
勃拉姆斯	bo	si	Brahms (name); Johannes Brahms (1833-1897), German romantic composer
勃朗宁	bo	ning	Browning, US firearm brand
勃朗峰	bo	feng	Mont Blanc (between Italy and France)
勃然变色	bo	se	to suddenly change color showing displeasure, bewilderment etc
勃然大怒	bo	nu	(idiom) to fly into a rage; to see red
勃艮第	bo	di	Burgundy (Bourgogne), a medieval kingdom and later a powerful duchy, now a region of France
勃起功能障碍	bo	ai	erectile dysfunction (ED)
勇往前进	yong	jin	see 勇往直前[yong3 wang3 zhi2 qian2]
勇往直前	yong	qian	to advance bravely
勇气可嘉	yong	jia	to deserve praise for one's courage (idiom)
勉为其难	mian	nan	to tackle a difficult job (idiom); to do sth reluctantly
勉力而为	mian	wei	to try one's best to do sth (idiom)
勉勉强强	mian	qiang	to achieve with difficulty; only just up to the task; barely adequate
勐海县	meng	xian	Menghai, a county in Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
勐腊县	meng	xian	Mengla, a county in Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
勒克斯	le	si	lux (unit of illuminance) (loanword)
勒勒车	lei	che	wagon (yoked to beast of burden)
勒哈费尔	le	er	Le Havre (French town)
勒威耶	le	ye	Urbain Le Verrier (1811-1877), French mathematician and astronomer who predicted the position of Neptune
勒斯波斯	le	si	Lesbos (Greek island in Aegean)
勒斯波斯岛	le	dao	Lesbos (Greek island in Aegean)
勒索罪	le	zui	blackmail
勒索软件	le	jian	ransomware (computing)
勒紧裤带	lei	dai	to tighten one's belt; to live more frugally
勒维夫	le	fu	Lviv (Lvov), town in western Ukraine
勒维纳斯	le	si	Levinas (philosopher)
勒脖子	lei	zi	to throttle; to strangle
勘察加	kan	jia	Kamchatka (far eastern province of Russia)
勘察加半岛	kan	dao	Kamchatka Peninsula, far-eastern Russia
勘误表	kan	biao	corrigenda
勤俭务实	qin	shi	hardworking, thrifty and pragmatic
勤俭建国	qin	guo	to build up the country through thrift and hard work
勤俭持家	qin	jia	hardworking and thrifty in running one's household
勤俭朴实	qin	shi	hardworking, thrifty and unpretentious
勤俭朴素	qin	su	hardworking, thrifty and unpretentious
勤俭节约	qin	yue	(idiom) diligent and thrifty
勤则不匮	qin	kui	If one is industrious, one will not be in want. (idiom)
勤务兵	qin	bing	army orderly
勤务员	qin	yuan	odd job man; army orderly
勤劳致富	qin	fu	to get rich through hard work
勤勤恳恳	qin	ken	industrious and conscientious; assiduous
勤学苦练	qin	lian	to study diligently; to train assiduously
勤工俭学	qin	xue	to work part-time while studying; work-study program
勤能补拙	qin	zhuo	(idiom) hard work can make up for lack of natural talent
勺嘴鹬	shao	yu	(bird species of China) spoon-billed sandpiper (Calidris pygmaea)
勾三搭四	gou	si	to make hanky-panky; to seduce women
勾心斗角	gou	jiao	to fight and scheme against each other (idiom); (in palace construction) elaborate and refined
勾股定理	gou	li	Pythagorean theorem
勾肩搭背	gou	bei	(idiom) arms around each other's shoulders
勿忘国耻	wu	chi	Never forget national humiliation, refers to Mukden railway incident of 18th September 1931 九一八事變|九一八事变 and subsequent Japanese annexation of Manchuria
勿忘我	wu	wo	forget-me-not, genus Myosotis (botany)
勿求人	wu	ren	see 不求人[bu4 qiu2 ren2]
勿谓言之不预	wu	yu	(idiom) don't say you haven't been forewarned (threat used by the PRC in international diplomacy)
包乘制	bao	zhi	chartering system
包乘组	bao	zu	chartering charge
包书皮	bao	pi	book cover
包二奶	bao	nai	to cohabit with and financially support a mistress
包产到户	bao	hu	fixing of farm output quotas for each household
包产到户制	bao	zhi	system of quotas for farm output per household
包价旅游	bao	you	package holiday
包剪锤	bao	chui	rock-paper-scissors (game)
包办代替	bao	ti	to do everything oneself (idiom); not to allow others in on the act
包办婚姻	bao	yin	forced marriage; arranged marriage (without the consent of the individuals)
包吃包住	bao	zhu	to provide full board
包圆儿	bao	r	to buy the whole lot; to take everything remaining
包在我身上	bao	shang	leave it to me (idiom); I'll take care of it
包头市	bao	shi	Baotou, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
包子有肉不在褶上	bao	shang	a book is not judged by its cover (idiom)
包容心	bao	xin	tolerance; acceptance; inclusivity
包工头	bao	tou	chief labor contractor
包干儿	bao	r	erhua variant of 包乾|包干[bao1 gan1]
包干制	bao	zhi	a system of payment partly in kind and partly in cash
包待制	bao	zhi	Bao Daizhi, "Edict Attendant Bao", fictional name used for Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
包心菜	bao	cai	cabbage
包打天下	bao	xia	to run everything (idiom); to monopolize the whole business; not allow anyone else to have a look in
包承组	bao	zu	(responsible) crew
包揽词讼	bao	song	to canvas for lawsuits (idiom); to practice chicanery
包柔氏螺旋体	bao	ti	Borrelia, genus of Spirochaete bacteria
包氏螺旋体	bao	ti	Borrelia, genus of Spirochaete bacteria
包河区	bao	qu	Baohe, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
包治百病	bao	bing	guaranteed to cure all diseases
包皮环切	bao	qie	circumcision
包皮环切术	bao	shu	circumcision
包罗万象	bao	xiang	all-embracing; all-inclusive
包藏祸心	bao	xin	(idiom) to harbor evil intentions; to conceal malice
包衣种子	bao	zi	seed enclosed in artificial capsule
包袱底儿	bao	r	family heirloom; most precious family possession; person's secrets
包袱皮儿	bao	r	wrapping cloth
包装物	bao	wu	packaging
包装纸	bao	zhi	wrapping paper
包豪斯	bao	si	Bauhaus (German school of modern architecture and design)
包身工	bao	gong	indentured laborer
包退换	bao	huan	to guarantee refund or replacement (of faulty or unsatisfactory goods)
包里斯	bao	si	Boris (name)
包青天	bao	tian	Bao Qingtian, fictional nickname of Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
包饺子	bao	zi	to wrap jiaozi (dumplings or potstickers)
包龙图	bao	tu	Bao Longtu, ”Bao of the Dragon Image”, fictional name used for Bao Zheng 包拯[Bao1 Zheng3] (999-1062), Northern Song official renowned for his honesty
匈牙利	xiong	li	Hungary
匈牙利语	xiong	yu	Hungarian language
匍匐前进	pu	jin	to crawl forward
匍匐茎	pu	jing	(botany) stolon
化为乌有	hua	you	(idiom) to go up in smoke; to vanish
化为泡影	hua	ying	(idiom) to come to nothing
化合价	hua	jia	valence (chemistry)
化合物	hua	wu	chemical compound
化妆品	hua	pin	cosmetic; makeup product
化妆室	hua	shi	dressing room; powder room; (Tw) toilets
化妆师	hua	shi	makeup artist; (fig.) spin doctor; reputation manager
化妆水	hua	shui	skin toner
化妆舞会	hua	hui	masquerade
化学信息素	hua	su	semiochemical
化学元素	hua	su	chemical element
化学分析	hua	xi	chemical analysis
化学剂量计	hua	ji	chemical dosimeter
化学反应	hua	ying	chemical reaction
化学变化	hua	hua	chemical change; chemical transformation
化学品	hua	pin	chemicals
化学家	hua	jia	chemist
化学工业	hua	ye	chemical industry
化学工程	hua	cheng	chemical engineering
化学师	hua	shi	chemist; apothecary
化学式	hua	shi	chemical formula (e.g. water H2O)
化学弹药	hua	yao	chemical ammunition
化学性	hua	xing	chemical
化学性质	hua	zhi	chemical property
化学成分	hua	fen	chemical composition
化学战	hua	zhan	chemical warfare
化学战剂	hua	ji	chemical warfare agent
化学战斗部	hua	bu	chemical warhead
化学方程式	hua	shi	chemical equation
化学武器	hua	qi	chemical weapon
化学比色法	hua	fa	chemical colorimetry
化学治疗	hua	liao	chemotherapy
化学激光器	hua	qi	chemical laser
化学物	hua	wu	chemicals
化学疗法	hua	fa	chemotherapy
化学系	hua	xi	department of chemistry
化学纤维	hua	wei	man-made fiber
化学能	hua	neng	chemical energy
化学键	hua	jian	chemical bond
化学需氧量	hua	liang	(environmental science) chemical oxygen demand; COD
化州市	hua	shi	Huazhou, a county-level city in Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
化工厂	hua	chang	chemical factory; chemical plant
化干戈为玉帛	hua	bo	lit. to exchange weapons of war for gifts of jade and silk (idiom); fig. to turn hostility into friendship
化德县	hua	xian	Huade, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
化敌为友	hua	you	to convert an enemy into a friend (idiom)
化整为零	hua	ling	to break up the whole into pieces (idiom); dealing with things one by one; divide and conquer
化油器	hua	qi	carburetor
化石燃料	hua	liao	fossil fuel
化石群	hua	qun	fossil assemblage
化粪池	hua	chi	septic tank
化脓性	hua	xing	purulent (containing pus); septic
化腐朽为神奇	hua	qi	lit. to change something rotten into something magical (idiom)
化险为夷	hua	yi	to turn peril into safety (idiom); to avert disaster
化隆县	hua	xian	see 化隆回族自治縣|化隆回族自治县[Hua4 long2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
化隆回族自治县	hua	xian	Hualong Hui Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
北上广	bei	guang	Beijing, Shanghai and Guangzhou (abbr. for 北京[Bei3 jing1] + 上海[Shang4 hai3] + 廣州|广州[Guang3 zhou1])
北上广深	bei	shen	Beijing, Shanghai, Guangzhou and Shenzhen (abbr. for 北京[Bei3 jing1] + 上海[Shang4 hai3] + 廣州|广州[Guang3 zhou1] + 深圳[Shen1 zhen4])
北二外	bei	wai	abbr. for 北京第二外國語學院|北京第二外国语学院[Bei3 jing1 Di4 er4 Wai4 guo2 yu3 Xue2 yuan4]
北京中医药大学	bei	xue	Beijing University of Chinese Medicine
北京产权交易所	bei	suo	China Beijing Equity Exchange (CBEX)
北京人	bei	ren	Beijing resident; Peking ape-man, Homo erectus pekinensis (c. 600,000 BC), discovered in 1921 at Zhoukoudian 周口店[Zhou1 kou3 dian4], Beijing
北京南苑机场	bei	chang	Beijing Nanyuan Airport, military air base and secondary civil airport of Beijing
北京周报	bei	bao	Beijing Review
北京咳	bei	ke	"Beijing cough", respiratory problems caused by dry and polluted Beijing air, typically experienced by non-acclimated foreigners who would otherwise have no such problems
北京国家体育场	bei	chang	Beijing National Stadium
北京国家游泳中心	bei	xin	Beijing National Aquatics Center, swimming venue of the Beijing 2008 Olympic Games
北京外国语大学	bei	xue	Beijing Foreign Studies University (BFSU)
北京大兴国际机场	bei	chang	Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX)
北京大学	bei	xue	Peking University
北京工业大学	bei	xue	Beijing University of Technology
北京工人体育场	bei	chang	Workers Stadium
北京市	bei	shi	Beijing municipality, capital of the People's Republic of China (short name 京[Jing1])
北京师范大学	bei	xue	Beijing Normal University
北京广播学院	bei	yuan	Beijing Broadcasting Institute, former name of 中國傳媒大學|中国传媒大学[Zhong1 guo2 Chuan2 mei2 Da4 xue2]
北京教育学院	bei	yuan	Beijing Institute of Education
北京日报	bei	bao	Beijing Daily
北京时间	bei	jian	Beijing Time (BJT); China Standard Time (CST)
北京晚报	bei	bao	Beijing Evening News
北京晨报	bei	bao	Beijing Morning Post, newspaper published 1998-2018
北京林业大学	bei	xue	Beijing Forestry University
北京烤鸭	bei	ya	Peking Duck
北京物资学院	bei	yuan	Beijing Materials University
北京猿人	bei	ren	Peking ape-man; Homo erectus pekinensis (c. 600,000 BC), discovered in Zhoukoudian 周口店[Zhou1 kou3 dian4] in 1921
北京环球金融中心	bei	xin	Beijing World Financial Center, skyscraper
北京理工大学	bei	xue	Beijing Institute of Technology
北京电影学院	bei	yuan	Beijing Film Academy
北京瘫	bei	tan	"Beijing slouch", sitting posture said to be adopted esp. by Beijingers, popularized by 葛優|葛优[Ge3 You1]
北京科技大学	bei	xue	University of Science and Technology Beijing
北京第二外国语学院	bei	yuan	Beijing International Studies University (BISU)
北京舞蹈学院	bei	yuan	Beijing Dance Academy
北京航空航天大学	bei	xue	Beijing University of Aeronautics and Astronautics
北京话	bei	hua	Beijing dialect
北京语言大学	bei	xue	Beijing Language and Culture University (BLCU)
北京语言学院	bei	yuan	Beijing Language Institute; former name of 北京語言大學|北京语言大学[Bei3 jing1 Yu3 yan2 Da4 xue2] Beijing Language and Culture University (BLCU)
北京青年报	bei	bao	Beijing Youth Daily, newspaper founded in 1949
北京音	bei	yin	Beijing pronunciation
北仑区	bei	qu	Beilun, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
北伐军	bei	jun	the Northern Expeditionary Army
北关区	bei	qu	Beiguan, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
北冕座	bei	zuo	Corona Borealis (constellation)
北冰洋	bei	yang	Arctic ocean
北半球	bei	qiu	the Northern Hemisphere
北卡罗来纳	bei	na	North Carolina, US state
北印度语	bei	yu	Hindi; a north Indian language
北叟失马	bei	ma	lit. the old man lost his horse, but it all turned out for the best (idiom); fig. a blessing in disguise; it's an ill wind that blows nobody any good
北噪鸦	bei	ya	(bird species of China) Siberian jay (Perisoreus infaustus)
北回归线	bei	xian	Tropic of Cancer
北塔区	bei	qu	Beita, a district of Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
北大荒	bei	huang	the Great Northern Wilderness (in Northern China)
北大西洋	bei	yang	North Atlantic
北大西洋公约组织	bei	zhi	North Atlantic Treaty Organization, NATO
北威州	bei	zhou	North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany
北安市	bei	shi	Bei'an, a county-level city in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
北安普敦	bei	dun	Northampton, town in central England, county town of Northamptonshire 北安普敦郡[Bei3 an1 pu3 dun1 jun4]
北宋四大部书	bei	shu	Four great compilations of Northern Song dynasty, namely: Extensive records of the Taiping era (978) 太平廣記|太平广记, Imperial readings of the Taiping era 太平御覽|太平御览, Prime tortoise of the record bureau 冊府元龜|册府元龟, Finest blossoms in the garden of literature 文苑英華|文苑英华
北寒带	bei	dai	the north frigid zone
北屯区	bei	qu	Beitun District of Taichung, Taiwan
北屯市	bei	shi	Beitun, city in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
北山羊	bei	yang	ibex
北川县	bei	xian	see 北川羌族自治縣|北川羌族自治县[Bei3 chuan1 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
北川羌族自治县	bei	xian	Beichuan Qiang Autonomous County, in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
北布拉班特	bei	te	Noord Brabant, Netherlands
北师大	bei	da	Beijing Normal University; abbr. for 北京師範大學|北京师范大学[Bei3 jing1 Shi1 fan4 Da4 xue2]
北戴河	bei	he	see 北戴河區|北戴河区[Bei3 dai4 he2 Qu1]
北戴河区	bei	qu	Beidaihe, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
北投区	bei	qu	Beitou, a district of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
北斗七星	bei	xing	(astronomy) Big Dipper
北斗卫星导航系统	bei	tong	BeiDou Navigation Satellite System (BDS) (similar to GPS)
北斗星	bei	xing	the Big Dipper; the Plow
北方中杜鹃	bei	juan	(bird species of China) oriental cuckoo (Cuculus optatus)
北方佬	bei	lao	northerner; guy from the north; Yankee
北方工业	bei	ye	Norinco, PRC state-run conglomerate
北方民族大学	bei	xue	Northern Nationalities University NNU at Yingchuan, Ningxia (former Northwestern Second College for Nationalities)
北方邦	bei	bang	Uttar Pradesh (state in India)
北朝鲜	bei	xian	North Korea
北朱雀	bei	que	(bird species of China) Pallas's rosefinch (Carpodacus roseus)
北极光	bei	guang	northern lights; aurora borealis
北极圈	bei	quan	Arctic Circle
北极星	bei	xing	North Star; Polaris
北极熊	bei	xiong	polar bear
北极狐	bei	hu	arctic fox
北极鸥	bei	ou	(bird species of China) glaucous gull (Larus hyperboreus)
北林区	bei	qu	Beilin, a district of Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
北柴胡	bei	hu	honewort; Cryptotaenia japonica
北椋鸟	bei	niao	(bird species of China) Daurian starling; purple-backed starling (Agropsar sturninus)
北欧两项	bei	xiang	(sports) Nordic combined
北欧航空公司	bei	si	Scandinavian Airlines (SAS)
北洋军	bei	jun	north China army, a modernizing Western-style army set up during late Qing, and a breeding ground for the Northern Warlords after the Qinghai revolution
北洋军阀	bei	fa	the Northern Warlords (1912-1927)
北洋政府	bei	fu	the Warlord government of Northern China that developed from the Qing Beiyang army 北洋軍閥|北洋军阀 after the Xinhai revolution of 1911
北洋水师	bei	shi	north China navy (esp. the ill-fated Chinese navy in the 1895 war with Japan)
北洋系	bei	xi	Beiyang faction of Northern Warlords
北洋陆军	bei	jun	north China army (esp. during the warlords period)
北派螳螂拳	bei	quan	Beipai Tanglang Quan - "Northern Praying Mantis" (Chinese Martial Art)
北流市	bei	shi	Beiliu, a county-level city in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
北海公园	bei	yuan	Beihai Park, in Beijing to the northwest of the Forbidden City
北海市	bei	shi	Beihai, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
北海舰队	bei	dui	North Sea Fleet
北海道	bei	dao	Hokkaidō, Japan
北温带	bei	dai	the north temperate zone
北湖区	bei	qu	Beihu, a district of Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
北爱尔兰	bei	lan	Northern Ireland
北短翅莺	bei	ying	(bird species of China) Baikal bush warbler (Locustella davidi)
北碚区	bei	qu	Beibei, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
北票市	bei	shi	Beipiao, a county-level city in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
北红尾鸲	bei	qu	(bird species of China) Daurian redstart (Phoenicurus auroreus)
北美洲	bei	zhou	North America
北荷兰	bei	lan	North Holland, a province of the Netherlands
北蝗莺	bei	ying	(bird species of China) Middendorff's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes ochotensis)
北辰区	bei	qu	Beichen suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
北边儿	bei	r	erhua variant of 北邊|北边[bei3 bian1]
北达科他	bei	ta	North Dakota, US state
北部湾	bei	wan	Gulf of Tonkin
北镇市	bei	shi	Beizhen, a county-level city in Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
北长尾山雀	bei	que	(bird species of China) long-tailed tit (Aegithalos caudatus)
北领地	bei	di	Northern Territory, sparsely populated federal territory extending from center to north of Australia
北领角鸮	bei	xiao	(bird species of China) Japanese scops owl (Otus semitorques)
北马其顿	bei	dun	North Macedonia
北马里亚纳	bei	na	Northern Mariana Islands
北马里亚纳群岛	bei	dao	Northern Mariana Islands
北鹰鹃	bei	juan	(bird species of China) rufous hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx hyperythrus)
北齐书	bei	shu	History of Qi of the Northern Dynasties, eleventh of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Li Baiyao 李百藥|李百药[Li3 Bai3 yao4] in 636 during Tang Dynasty, 50 scrolls
匝加利亚	za	ya	(Catholicism) Zechariah
匠心独运	jiang	yun	original and ingenious (idiom); to show great creativity
匡扶社稷	kuang	ji	(of states within the nation) to support the ruler in governing the country
匪夷所思	fei	si	unimaginable; outrageous; freakish
匪徒集团	fei	tuan	gangster
匹克球	pi	qiu	(loanword) pickleball
匹兹堡	pi	bao	Pittsburgh (Pennsylvania)
匹夫匹妇	pi	fu	(idiom) ordinary people; commoners
匹马力	pi	li	horsepower
匹马单枪	pi	qiang	see 單槍匹馬|单枪匹马[dan1 qiang1 pi3 ma3]
区分大小写	qu	xie	case sensitive; distinguishing capitals from lowercase letters
区区小事	qu	shi	trivial matter; trifle
区块链	qu	lian	(computing) blockchain
区域性	qu	xing	regional
区域码	qu	ma	region code (DVD)
区域网络	qu	luo	local area network; LAN
区域网路	qu	lu	local area network; LAN
区字框	qu	kuang	radical 匚[fang1] (Kangxi radical 22)
区议会	qu	hui	district council
区间车	qu	che	train or bus traveling only part of its normal route
医之好治不病以为功	yi	gong	doctors like to treat those who are not sick so that they can get credit for the patient's "recovery" (idiom)
医务人员	yi	yuan	medical personnel
医务室	yi	shi	infirmary; sick bay; CL:個|个[ge4]
医务所	yi	suo	clinic; CL:家[jia1]
医学专家	yi	jia	medical expert; medical specialist
医学中心	yi	xin	medical center
医学博士	yi	shi	doctor of medicine
医学家	yi	jia	medical scientist
医学检验	yi	yan	medical laboratory technology
医学检验师	yi	shi	medical technologist
医学系	yi	xi	medical school
医学院	yi	yuan	medical school
医护人员	yi	yuan	medical personnel; doctors and nurses
医疗保健	yi	jian	health care
医疗保险	yi	xian	medical insurance
医疗器械	yi	xie	medical equipment
医疗护理	yi	li	health care
医疗疏失	yi	shi	medical negligence; medical malpractice
医疗费	yi	fei	medical expenses
医科大学	yi	xue	university of medicine
医科学校	yi	xiao	medical school
医药分离	yi	li	separating medical consultation from dispensing drugs, proposed policy to counteract perceived PRC problem of "drugs serving to nourish doctors" 以藥養醫|以药养医[yi3 yao4 yang3 yi1]
医药商店	yi	dian	chemist; druggist; pharmacy
医药学	yi	xue	medical science
匿名信	ni	xin	anonymous letter
匿影藏形	ni	xing	to hide from public view; to conceal one's identity; to lay low
十一月	shi	yue	November; eleventh month (of the lunar year)
十一月份	shi	fen	November
十一路	shi	lu	(coll.) going on foot
十七孔桥	shi	qiao	Seventeen-Arch Bridge in the Summer Palace 頤和園|颐和园[Yi2 he2 yuan2], Beijing
十万位	shi	wei	the hundred thousands place (or column) in the decimal system
十万八千里	shi	li	light-years (apart); a million miles (apart); (i.e. indicates a huge difference or a huge distance)
十万火急	shi	ji	most urgent; posthaste; express
十三张	shi	zhang	Chinese poker
十三日	shi	ri	thirteenth day of a month
十三点	shi	dian	half-witted; nitwit
十三经	shi	jing	the Thirteen Confucian Classics, namely: Book of Songs 詩經|诗经[Shi1 jing1], Book of History 尚書|尚书[Shang4 shu1], Rites of Zhou 周禮|周礼[Zhou1 li3], Rites and Ceremonies 儀禮|仪礼[Yi2 li3], Classic of Rites 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4], Book of Changes 易經|易经[Yi4 jing1], Mr Zuo's Annals 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4], Mr Gongyang's Annals 公羊傳|公羊传[Gong1 yang2 Zhuan4], Mr Guliang's Annals 穀梁傳|谷梁传[Gu3 liang2 Zhuan4], The Analects 論語|论语[Lun2 yu3], Erya 爾雅|尔雅[Er3 ya3], Classic of Filial Piety 孝經|孝经[Xiao4 jing1], Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3]
十之八九	shi	jiu	most likely; mostly (in 8 or 9 cases out of 10); vast majority
十二分	shi	fen	exceedingly; hundred percent; everything and more
十二地支	shi	zhi	the 12 earthly branches 子[zi3], 丑, 寅, 卯, 辰, 巳, 午, 未, 申, 酉, 戌, 亥 (used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal numbers)
十二宫	shi	gong	the twelve equatorial constellations or signs of the zodiac in Western astronomy and astrology, namely: Aries 白羊[Bai2 yang2], Taurus 金牛[Jin4 niu2], Gemini 雙子|双子[Shuang1 zi3], Cancer 巨蟹[Ju4 xie4], Leo 獅子|狮子[Shi1 zi3], Virgo 室女[Shi4 nu:3], Libra 天秤[Tian1 cheng4], Scorpio 天蠍|天蝎[Tian1 xie1], Sagittarius 人馬|人马[Ren2 ma3], Capricorn 摩羯[Mo2 jie2], Aquarius 寶瓶|宝瓶[Bao3 ping2], Pisces 雙魚|双鱼[Shuang1 yu2]
十二平均律	shi	lv	equal temperament
十二指肠	shi	chang	duodenum
十二支	shi	zhi	the 12 earthly branches 子[zi3], 丑, 寅, 卯, 辰, 巳, 午, 未, 申, 酉, 戌, 亥 (used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal number)
十二时辰	shi	chen	twelve divisions of the day of early Chinese and Babylonian timekeeping and astronomy
十二星座	shi	zuo	the twelve signs of the zodiac
十二月	shi	yue	December; twelfth month (of the lunar year)
十二月份	shi	fen	December
十二码	shi	ma	12-yard (sports); penalty kick
十二经	shi	jing	twelve channels of TCM
十二经脉	shi	mai	twelve channels of TCM
十二角形	shi	xing	dodecagon
十二边形	shi	xing	dodecagon
十二面体	shi	ti	dodecahedron
十全十美	shi	mei	complete and beautiful; to be perfect (idiom)
十六国	shi	guo	Sixteen Kingdoms of Five non-Han people (ruling most of China 304-439); also written 五胡十六國|五胡十六国
十六国春秋	shi	qiu	history of the Sixteen Kingdoms 304-439 by Cui Hong 崔鴻|崔鸿, written towards the end of Wei of the Northern Dynasties 北魏, 100 scrolls
十六字诀	shi	jue	16-character formula, esp. Mao Zedong's mantra on guerrilla warfare: 敵進我退，敵駐我擾，敵疲我打，敵退我追|敌进我退，敌驻我扰，敌疲我打，敌退我追[di2 jin4 wo3 tui4 , di2 zhu4 wo3 rao3 , di2 pi2 wo3 da3 , di2 tui4 wo3 zhui1] when the enemy advances we retreat; when the enemy makes camp we harass; when the enemy is exhausted we fight; and when the enemy retreats we pursue
十六烷值	shi	zhi	cetane number (quality of light diesel fuel, measured by its ignition delay)
十六进制	shi	zhi	hexadecimal
十分之一	shi	yi	one tenth
十分位数	shi	shu	decile (statistics)
十动然拒	shi	ju	to reject sb after being deeply touched by them (Internet slang)
十四行诗	shi	shi	sonnet
十国春秋	shi	qiu	History of Ten States of South China (1669) by Wu Renchen 吳任臣|吴任臣[Wu2 Ren4 chen2], 114 scrolls
十堰市	shi	shi	Shiyan, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
十多亿	shi	yi	over one billion; more than a billion
十大神兽	shi	shou	the Baidu 10 mythical creatures (a set of hoax animals and puns linked to PRC Internet censorship)
十天干	shi	gan	the ten Heavenly Stems 甲[jia3], 乙[yi3], 丙[bing3], 丁[ding1], 戊[wu4], 己[ji3], 庚[geng1], 辛[xin1], 壬[ren2], 癸[gui3] (used cyclically in the calendar and as ordinal number like Roman I, II, III)
十字丝	shi	si	crosshairs
十字军	shi	jun	the Crusades; Crusader army; (fig.) crusade; militant campaign for a cause
十字军东征	shi	zheng	the Crusades
十字形	shi	xing	cruciform; cross shape
十字架	shi	jia	cross; crucifix; yoke one has to endure
十字架刑	shi	xing	crucifiction
十字绣	shi	xiu	cross-stitch
十字花科	shi	ke	Cruciferae or Brassicaceae (taxonomic family including Brassica etc whose flowers have a cross of 4 petals)
十字螺丝刀	shi	dao	Phillips screwdriver (with a cross-shaped tip)
十字路口	shi	kou	crossroads; intersection
十字转门	shi	men	turnstile
十字镐	shi	gao	pickaxe
十常侍	shi	shi	Ten Permanent Functionaries at the end of Han, a byword for corruption
十年树木百年树人	shi	ren	(idiom) it takes ten years to grow trees, but a hundred years to cultivate people
十恶不赦	shi	she	wicked beyond redemption (idiom); heinous
十成九稳	shi	wen	see 十拿九穩|十拿九稳[shi2 na2 jiu3 wen3]
十拿九稳	shi	wen	(idiom) to be a cinch; in the bag; (idiom) (of a person) confident of success
十指不沾阳春水	shi	shui	(saying) (usu. of a woman) to have no need to do household chores (washing clothes etc); to lead a pampered life
十日谈	shi	tan	Decameron, collection of 100 tales of love supposedly told by ten young people in ten days, written by Giovanni Boccaccio 薄伽丘[Bo2 jia1 qiu1]
十月份	shi	fen	October
十月革命	shi	ming	October Revolution
十有八九	shi	jiu	most likely; mostly (in 8 or 9 cases out of 10); vast majority
十角形	shi	xing	decagon
十赌九输	shi	shu	lit. in gambling, nine times out of ten you lose (idiom); fig. gambling is a mug's game
十边形	shi	xing	decagon
十进位	shi	wei	decimal system
十进位法	shi	fa	decimal system
十进制	shi	zhi	decimal
十里洋场	shi	chang	the Shanghai of old, with its foreign settlements; (fig.) a bustling, cosmopolitan city
十面埋伏	shi	fu	Ambush from Ten Sides (pipa solo piece); House of Flying Daggers (2004 movie by Zhang Yimou 張藝謀|张艺谋[Zhang1 Yi4 mou2])
十项全能	shi	neng	decathlon
千丝万缕	qian	lv	(idiom) intricately interconnected
千乘之国	qian	guo	(archaic) a state with a thousand chariots (to fight a war) – a powerful state
千佛洞	qian	dong	Buddhist grottos
千依百顺	qian	shun	totally submissive (idiom)
千儿八百	qian	bai	(coll.) one thousand or almost one thousand
千军万马	qian	ma	magnificent army with thousands of men and horses (idiom); impressive display of manpower; all the King's horses and all the King's men
千军易得一将难求	qian	qiu	Easy to raise an army of one thousand, but hard to find a good general. (idiom)
千刀万剐	qian	gua	(idiom) to hack (sb) to pieces (punishment in former times)
千分尺	qian	chi	micrometer screw gauge; micrometer
千千万万	qian	wan	lit. by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom); untold numbers; innumerable; thousands upon thousands
千变万化	qian	hua	countless changes; constant permutation
千变万轸	qian	zhen	constantly changing, ever-varying (idiom)
千古罪人	qian	ren	sb condemned by history (idiom)
千古遗恨	qian	hen	to have eternal regrets (idiom)
千叮万嘱	qian	zhu	repeatedly urging; imploring over and over again
千头万绪	qian	xu	plethora of things to tackle; multitude of loose ends; very complicated
千奇百怪	qian	guai	fantastic oddities of every description (idiom)
千姿百态	qian	tai	(idiom) to come in many different shapes; to display a great variety of forms
千娇百媚	qian	mei	(idiom) (of a woman) bewitching; charming
千字文	qian	wen	Thousand Character Classic, 6th century poem used as a traditional reading primer
千字节	qian	jie	kilobyte
千家万户	qian	hu	every family (idiom)
千层面	qian	mian	lasagna
千山区	qian	qu	Qianshan, a district of Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
千岛湖	qian	hu	Qiandao Lake in Zhejiang, aka Xin'an River Reservoir, created as part of a large hydroelectric project in 1959
千岛群岛	qian	dao	Kuril Islands, archipelago in Sakhalin, far-eastern Russia
千岛酱	qian	jiang	thousand island dressing
千差万别	qian	bie	(idiom) extremely diverse; to vary greatly
千恩万谢	qian	xie	(idiom) to thank profusely; to express deep gratitude
千挑万选	qian	xuan	to select very carefully
千斤顶	qian	ding	jack (mechanical lifting device)
千方百计	qian	ji	lit. thousand ways, a hundred plans (idiom); by every possible means
千瓦时	qian	shi	kilowatt-hour
千疮百孔	qian	kong	see 百孔千瘡|百孔千疮[bai3 kong3 qian1 chuang1]
千真万确	qian	que	absolutely true (idiom); manifold; true from many points of view
千碱基对	qian	dui	kilobase pair (molecular biology)
千禧一代	qian	dai	Generation Y; Millennial Generation
千禧年	qian	nian	the first year of a millennium (esp. the year 2000)
千秋万代	qian	dai	throughout the ages
千篇一律	qian	lv	thousand articles, same rule (idiom); stereotyped and repetitive; once you've seen one, you've seen them all
千虑一失	qian	shi	reflect a thousand times and you can still make a mistake (idiom); to err is human
千虑一得	qian	de	a thousand tries leads to one success (idiom, humble expr.); Even without any notable ability on my part, I may still get it right sometimes by good luck.
千言万语	qian	yu	thousands of words (idiom); having a lot of things to say; talking nonstop
千赫兹	qian	zi	kilohertz; kHz
千足虫	qian	chong	millipede
千足金	qian	jin	.999 fine gold
千载难逢	qian	feng	extremely rare (idiom); once in a blue moon
千辛万苦	qian	ku	to suffer untold hardships (idiom); trials and tribulations; with difficulty; after some effort
千里之堤毁于蚁穴	qian	xue	see 千里之堤，潰於蟻穴|千里之堤，溃于蚁穴[qian1 li3 zhi1 di1 , kui4 yu2 yi3 xue2]
千里之堤溃于蚁穴	qian	xue	(lit.) an ant hole may cause the collapse of a great dike (idiom); (fig.) huge damage may result from a moment's negligence
千里之外	qian	wai	thousand miles distant
千里之行始于足下	qian	xia	lit. a thousand mile journey begins with the first step; fig. big accomplishments come from an accumulation of little achievements made one by one
千里寄鹅毛	qian	mao	goose feather sent from afar (idiom); a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it; also written 千里送鵝毛|千里送鹅毛
千里眼	qian	yan	clairvoyance
千里达及托巴哥	qian	ge	Trinidad and Tobago (Tw)
千里达和多巴哥	qian	ge	Trinidad and Tobago
千里迢迢	qian	tiao	(idiom) from a great distance; (to come) from afar
千里送鹅毛	qian	mao	goose feather sent from afar (idiom); a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it
千里马	qian	ma	lit. ten thousand mile horse; fine steed
千里鹅毛	qian	mao	goose feather sent from afar (idiom); a trifling gift with a weighty thought behind it; also written 千里送鵝毛|千里送鹅毛[qian1 li3 song4 e2 mao2]
千金一掷	qian	zhi	lit. stake a thousand pieces of gold on one throw (idiom); to throw away money recklessly; extravagant
千金一诺	qian	nuo	a promise worth one thousand in gold (idiom); a promise that must be kept
千金方	qian	fang	Prescriptions Worth a Thousand in Gold, early Tang compendium of herbal medicine by Sun Simiao 孫思邈|孙思邈[Sun1 Si1 miao3]
千金要方	qian	fang	Prescriptions Worth a Thousand in Gold, early Tang compendium of herbal medicine by Sun Simiao 孫思邈|孙思邈[Sun1 Si1 miao3]
千金难买	qian	mai	can't be bought for one thousand in gold (idiom)
千钧一发	qian	fa	(lit.) a thousand pounds hangs by a thread (idiom); (fig.) (at the) critical; perilous (moment)
千锤百炼	qian	lian	after hard work and numerous revisions (idiom); the vicissitudes of life
千阳县	qian	xian	Qianyang, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
千难万难	qian	nan	extremely difficult
升压剂	sheng	ji	vasopressor agent; antihypotensive agent (medicine)
升堂入室	sheng	shi	lit. to reach the main room and enter the chamber (idiom); fig. to gradually attain proficiency; to attain a higher level
升官发财	sheng	cai	to be promoted and gain wealth (idiom)
升斗小民	sheng	min	(idiom) poor people; those who live from hand to mouth
升旗仪式	sheng	shi	flag raising ceremony
升班马	sheng	ma	(sports, esp. soccer) newly promoted team (one that has advanced from a lower league to a higher league)
升糖指数	sheng	shu	glycemic index
升糖素	sheng	su	glucagon
升结肠	sheng	chang	ascending colon (anatomy); first section of large intestine
升降机	sheng	ji	aerial work platform (e.g. cherry picker or scissor lift); lift; elevator
午餐会	wu	hui	luncheon
午餐肉	wu	rou	canned luncheon meat; Spam
半个人	ban	ren	(not) a single person; (no) one
半中腰	ban	yao	middle; halfway
半乳糖	ban	tang	galactose (CH2O)6; brain sugar
半乳糖血症	ban	zheng	galactosemia
半人马	ban	ma	centaur (mythology)
半人马座	ban	zuo	Centaurus (constellation)
半保留复制	ban	zhi	semiconservative replication
半信半疑	ban	yi	(idiom) half believing, half doubting; not quite convinced; skeptical
半公开	ban	kai	semiovert; more or less open
半决赛	ban	sai	semifinals
半分儿	ban	r	erhua variant of 半分[ban4 fen1]
半劳动力	ban	li	one able to do light manual labor only; semi-able-bodied or part time (farm) worker
半半拉拉	ban	la	incomplete; unfinished
半吊子	ban	zi	dabbler; smatterer; tactless and impulsive person
半圆仪	ban	yi	protractor
半圆形	ban	xing	semicircular
半坡遗址	ban	zhi	Banpo neolithic Yangshao culture archaeological site east of Xi'an 西安
半壁江山	ban	shan	half of the country (esp. when half the country has fallen into enemy hands); vast swathe of territory
半壁河山	ban	shan	see 半壁江山[ban4 bi4 jiang1 shan1]
半复赛	ban	sai	eighth finals
半夜三更	ban	geng	see 三更半夜[san1 geng1 ban4 ye4]
半大不小	ban	xiao	teenage; in one's teens; adolescent
半大小子	ban	zi	teenage boy; adolescent boy
半失业	ban	ye	semi-employed; partly employed; underemployed
半官方	ban	fang	semiofficial
半宝石	ban	shi	semi-precious stone
半导体	ban	ti	semiconductor
半导瓷	ban	ci	semiconducting ceramic (electronics)
半封建	ban	jian	semifeudal
半封建半殖民地	ban	di	semifeudal and semicolonial (the official Marxist description of China in the late Qing and under the Guomindang)
半小时	ban	shi	half an hour; 30 minutes
半履带车	ban	che	half-track (vehicle with wheels at the front and continuous tracks in the rear)
半山区	ban	qu	mid-levels (in Hong Kong)
半山腰	ban	yao	the mid-slope of a mountain
半岛电视台	ban	tai	Al Jazeera (Arabic news network)
半工半读	ban	du	part work, part study; work-study program
半开化	ban	hua	semicivilized
半开半关	ban	guan	half-open, half closed
半开门	ban	men	half-open door; fig. prostitute
半开门儿	ban	r	erhua variant of 半開門|半开门[ban4 kai1 men2]
半懂不懂	ban	dong	to not fully understand; to only partly understand
半成品	ban	pin	semi-manufactured goods; semifinished articles; semifinished products
半截衫	ban	shan	upper jacket
半推半就	ban	jiu	half willing and half unwilling (idiom); to yield after making a show of resistance
半数以上	ban	shang	more than half
半文盲	ban	mang	semiliterate
半斤八两	ban	liang	not much to choose between the two; tweedledum and tweedledee
半无限	ban	xian	semi-infinite
半日制学校	ban	xiao	half-day (or double-shift) school
半日工作	ban	zuo	part-time work in which one works each day for a half-day, typically a morning or an afternoon
半明不灭	ban	mie	dull (lamplight)
半月刊	ban	kan	fortnightly; twice a month
半月板	ban	ban	meniscus (anatomy)
半月瓣	ban	ban	semilunar valve (anatomy)
半条命	ban	ming	half a life; only half alive; barely alive
半桶水	ban	shui	(coll.) (of one's skills, knowledge etc) limited; superficial; half-baked
半梦半醒	ban	xing	half-awake; half-asleep
半死不活	ban	huo	(idiom) half-dead; barely alive; (idiom) listless
半殖民地	ban	di	semicolonial
半流体	ban	ti	semifluid
半流食	ban	shi	(medicine) semi-liquid food
半熟练	ban	lian	semiskilled
半熟蛋	ban	dan	soft-boiled egg
半瓶子醋	ban	cu	see 半瓶醋[ban4 ping2 cu4]
半瓶水响叮当	ban	dang	lit. if you tap a half-empty bottle it makes a sound (idiom); fig. empty vessels make the most noise; one who has a little knowledge likes to show off, but one who is truly knowledgeable is modest
半瓶醋	ban	cu	dabbler; dilettante who speaks as though he were an expert
半生不熟	ban	shou	underripe; half-cooked; (fig.) not mastered (of a technique)
半真半假	ban	jia	(idiom) half true and half false
半空中	ban	zhong	in midair; in the air
半糖夫妻	ban	qi	weekend spouse; relationship involving a sugar-daddy
半翅目	ban	mu	Hemiptera (suborder of order Homoptera, insects including cicadas and aphids)
半老徐娘	ban	niang	middle-aged but still attractive woman; lady of a certain age
半胱氨酸	ban	suan	cysteine (Cys), an amino acid; mercaptoethyl amine
半脱产	ban	chan	partly released from productive labor; partly released from one's regular work
半腱肌	ban	ji	semitendinosus, one of the hamstring muscles in the thigh
半膜肌	ban	ji	semimembranosus (anatomy)
半自动	ban	dong	semiautomatic
半自耕农	ban	nong	semi-tenant peasant; semi-owner peasant
半表半里	ban	li	half outside, half inside; half interior, half exterior
半衰期	ban	qi	(physics) half-life
半裸体	ban	ti	half-naked
半规则	ban	ze	quasi-regular
半规管	ban	guan	(anatomy) semicircular canal
半视野	ban	ye	half visual field
半跏坐	ban	zuo	sitting with one leg crossed (usu. of Bodhisattva)
半路出家	ban	jia	(lit.) to enter monastic life at a mature age (idiom); (fig.) to change one's career; to take up a new line of work or specialization; to enter a profession from a different background
半路杀出个程咬金	ban	jin	lit. Cheng Yaojin ambushes the enemy (saying); fig. sb shows up unexpectedly and disrupts the plan; sb whose presence is regarded as irksome
半路杀出的程咬金	ban	jin	see 半路殺出個程咬金|半路杀出个程咬金[ban4 lu4 sha1 chu1 ge4 Cheng2 Yao3 jin1]
半蹼鹬	ban	yu	(bird species of China) Asian dowitcher (Limnodromus semipalmatus)
半身不遂	ban	sui	paralysis of one side of the body; hemiplegia
半身像	ban	xiang	half-length photo or portrait; bust
半辈子	ban	zi	half of a lifetime
半边天	ban	tian	half the sky; women of the new society; womenfolk
半透明	ban	ming	translucent; semitransparent
半途而废	ban	fei	to give up halfway (idiom); leave sth unfinished
半通不通	ban	tong	to not fully understand (idiom)
半长轴	ban	zhou	semiaxis; radius
半间不界	ban	ga	shallow; not thorough; superficial
半音程	ban	cheng	semitone
半麻醉	ban	zui	local anesthetic; anesthesia to half the body (as for a C-section birth)
华东师大	hua	da	East China Normal University (abbr. for 華東師範大學|华东师范大学[Hua2 dong1 Shi1 fan4 Da4 xue2])
华东师范大学	hua	xue	East China Normal University (ECNU)
华东理工大学	hua	xue	East China University of Science and Technology
华严宗	hua	zong	Chinese Buddhist school founded on the Buddhavatamsaka-mahavaipulya Sutra (Garland sutra)
华严经	hua	jing	Avatamsaka sutra of the Huayan school; also called Buddhavatamsaka-mahavaipulya Sutra, the Flower adornment sutra or the Garland sutra
华亭市	hua	shi	Huating, a county-level city in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
华佗再世	hua	shi	(lit.) a reincarnation of Hua Tuo, the legendary physician of the Eastern Han Dynasty (idiom); (fig.) a highly skilled and virtuous doctor; a miracle-working physician
华侨大学	hua	xue	Huaqiao University
华侨报	hua	bao	Va Kio Daily
华兴会	hua	hui	anti-Qing revolutionary party set up in Changsha by 黃興|黄兴[Huang2 Xing1] in 1904, a precursor of Sun Yat-sen's Alliance for Democracy 同盟會|同盟会[Tong2 meng2 hui4] and of the Guomindang
华兹华斯	hua	si	surname Wordsworth; William Wordsworth (1770–1850), English romantic poet
华北事变	hua	bian	North China Incident of October-December 1935, a Japanese attempt to set up a puppet government in north China
华北平原	hua	yuan	North China Plain
华北龙	hua	long	Huabeisaurus (Huabeisaurus allocotus)
华南冠纹柳莺	hua	ying	(bird species of China) Hartert's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus goodsoni)
华南斑胸钩嘴鹛	hua	mei	(bird species of China) grey-sided scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys swinhoei)
华南理工大学	hua	xue	South China University of Technology
华南虎	hua	hu	South China Tiger
华商报	hua	bao	China Business News (newspaper)
华商晨报	hua	bao	China Business Morning Post (morning edition of China Business News 華商報|华商报)
华国锋	hua	feng	Hua Guofeng (1921-2008), CCP Chairman 1976-1981
华坪县	hua	xian	Huaping, a county in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
华夏银行	hua	hang	Huaxia Bank
华威大学	hua	xue	University of Warwick, Coventry, UK
华宁县	hua	xian	Huaning, a county in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
华安县	hua	xian	Hua'an, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
华容区	hua	qu	Huarong, a district of Ezhou City 鄂州市[E4 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
华容县	hua	xian	Huarong, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
华容道	hua	dao	Huarong Road (traditional puzzle involving sliding wooden blocks, loosely based on an episode in Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4])
华尔兹	hua	zi	(loanword) waltz (dance)
华尔滋	hua	zi	(Tw) (loanword) waltz (dance)
华尔街	hua	jie	Wall Street, New York; by extension, American big business
华尔街日报	hua	bao	Wall Street Journal
华屋丘墟	hua	xu	magnificent building reduced to a mound of rubble (idiom); fig. all one's plans in ruins
华州区	hua	qu	Huazhou, a district of Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
华师大	hua	da	East China Normal University (abbr. for 華東師範大學|华东师范大学[Hua2 dong1 Shi1 fan4 Da4 xue2])
华林部	hua	bu	Hualinbu, Ming dynasty theatrical troupe in Nanjing
华氏度	hua	du	°F (degrees Fahrenheit)
华池县	hua	xian	Huachi, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
华法林	hua	lin	warfarin (loanword)
华润万家	hua	jia	CR Vanguard or China Resources Vanguard Shop, a supermarket chain in Hong Kong and mainland China
华灯初上	hua	shang	early evening when lanterns are first lit
华盛顿	hua	dun	Washington (name); George Washington (1732-1799), first US president; Washington, US State
华盛顿时报	hua	bao	Washington Times (newspaper)
华盛顿特区	hua	qu	Washington D.C. (US federal capital)
华盛顿邮报	hua	bao	Washington Post (newspaper)
华米科技	hua	ji	Zepp Health Corporation, Chinese company providing digital health management based on wearable devices, established in 2013
华纳兄弟	hua	di	Warner Brothers
华纳音乐集团	hua	tuan	Warner Music Group
华罗庚	hua	geng	Hua Luogeng (1910-1985), Chinese number theorist
华而不实	hua	shi	flower but no fruit (idiom); handsome exterior but hollow inside; flashy
华蓥市	hua	shi	Huaying, a county-level city in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
华语文能力测验	hua	yan	TOCFL (Test of Chinese as a Foreign Language)
华达呢	hua	ni	(loanword) gabardine
华阴市	hua	shi	Huayin, a county-level city in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
华龙区	hua	qu	Hualong, a district of Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
协力车	xie	che	vehicle powered by two or more pedallers (typically, a tandem bicycle)
协变量	xie	liang	covariate (statistics)
协同主持人	xie	ren	(Tw) (in a research project) collaborator of the investigator(s)
协同作用	xie	yong	synergy; cooperative interaction
协和式客机	xie	ji	Concorde, supersonic passenger airliner
协和飞机	xie	ji	Concorde, supersonic passenger airliner
协商会议	xie	yi	consultative conference (political venue during early communist rule); consultative meeting; deliberative assembly
协处理器	xie	qi	coprocessor
协奏曲	xie	qu	concerto
协方差	xie	cha	(statistics) covariance
协管员	xie	yuan	assistant manager; steward
协约国	xie	guo	Allies; entente (i.e. Western powers allied to China in WW1)
协议书	xie	shu	contract; protocol
协调世界时	xie	shi	Coordinated Universal Time (UTC)
协调人	xie	ren	coordinator
协调员	xie	yuan	coordinator
卑不足道	bei	dao	not worth mentioning
卑之无甚高论	bei	lun	my opinion, nothing very involved (idiom, humble expression); my humble point is a familiar opinion; what I say is really nothing out of the ordinary
卑之毋甚高论	bei	lun	my opinion, nothing very involved (idiom, humble expression); my humble point is a familiar opinion; what I say is really nothing out of the ordinary
卑亲属	bei	shu	(law) junior relatives; relatives of a younger generation such as children, grandchildren or nephews
卑以自牧	bei	mu	(idiom) to conduct oneself humbly; modest
卑卑不足道	bei	dao	to be too petty or insignificant to mention; to not be worth mentioning (idiom)
卑南族	bei	zu	puyuma, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
卑尔根	bei	gen	Bergen
卑躬屈膝	bei	xi	to bow and bend the knee (idiom); fawning; bending and scraping to curry favor
卑躬屈节	bei	jie	to bow and scrape; to act servilely
卑辞厚币	bei	bi	humble expression for generous donation
卑辞厚礼	bei	li	humble expression for generous gift
卑鄙无耻	bei	chi	(idiom) shameless; despicable; devoid of integrity
卑鄙龌龊	bei	chuo	sordid and contemptible (idiom); vile and repulsive (esp. character or action)
卑陋龌龊	bei	chuo	sordid and contemptible (idiom); vile and repulsive (esp. character or action)
卓乎不群	zhuo	qun	standing out from the common crowd (idiom); outstanding; preeminent
卓别林	zhuo	lin	Charlie Chaplin (1899-1977), English movie actor and director
卓尔不群	zhuo	qun	standing above the common crowd (idiom); outstanding; excellent and unrivaled
卓尼县	zhuo	xian	Jonê, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
卓有成效	zhuo	xiao	highly effective; fruitful
卓资县	zhuo	xian	Zhuozi, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
单一登入	dan	ru	(Tw) single sign-on (SSO)
单一码	dan	ma	Unicode; also written 統一碼|统一码
单一货币	dan	bi	single currency
单个儿	dan	r	erhua variant of 單個|单个[dan1 ge5]
单亲妈妈	dan	ma	single mother
单亲家庭	dan	ting	single parent family
单亲爸爸	dan	ba	single father
单人匹马	dan	ma	single-handedly (idiom)
单人床	dan	chuang	single bed; CL:張|张[zhang1]
单人沙发	dan	fa	(upholstered) armchair
单人间	dan	jian	single room (hotel)
单位信托	dan	tuo	unit trust (finance)
单位元	dan	yuan	identity element (math.)
单位切向量	dan	liang	(math.) unit tangent vector
单位向量	dan	liang	(math.) unit vector
单位根	dan	gen	(math.) root of unity
单位犯罪	dan	zui	crime committed by an organization
单倍体	dan	ti	haploid (single chromosome)
单元房	dan	fang	apartment
单元格	dan	ge	(spreadsheet) cell
单克隆抗体	dan	ti	(immunology) monoclonal antibody
单刀直入	dan	ru	(idiom) to get straight to the point
单刀赴会	dan	hui	lit. to go among enemies with only one's sword (idiom); fig. to go alone into enemy lines
单反相机	dan	ji	single-lens reflex camera (SLR)
单口相声	dan	sheng	comic monologue; one-person comic sketch
单叶双曲面	dan	mian	(math.) one-sheeted hyperboloid
单向电流	dan	liu	(elec.) unidirectional current; DC; also written 直流[zhi2 liu2]
单味药	dan	yao	medicine made from a single herb; drug made from a single substance
单子叶	dan	ye	monocotyledon (plant family distinguished by single embryonic leaf, includes grasses, orchids and lilies)
单宁酸	dan	suan	tannic acid (loanword)
单层塔	dan	ta	single-storied pagoda
单峰驼	dan	tuo	dromedary
单引号	dan	hao	single quotes
单张汇票	dan	piao	sola bill of exchange (international trade)
单房差	dan	cha	single supplement (for a hotel room)
单打独斗	dan	dou	to fight alone (idiom)
单放机	dan	ji	tape player; video player; (media) player
单方制剂	dan	ji	prescribed preparation
单方向	dan	xiang	unidirectional; single-aspect
单方宣告	dan	gao	unilateral declaration
单方过失碰撞	dan	zhuang	collision in which only one party is at fault
单方面	dan	mian	unilateral
单板机	dan	ji	single-board computer
单板滑雪	dan	xue	to snowboard
单枪匹马	dan	ma	(idiom) single-handed; on one's own
单核细胞	dan	bao	monocyte; mononuclear cell
单核细胞增多症	dan	zheng	mononucleosis
单根独苗	dan	miao	an only child
单模光纤	dan	xian	single-mode optical fiber
单源论	dan	lun	theory of single origin (of mankind)
单点故障	dan	zhang	single point of failure
单点登录	dan	lu	single sign-on (SSO)
单片机	dan	ji	microcontroller; one-chip computer
单班课	dan	ke	individual lesson; one-on-one class
单相思	dan	si	one-sided lovesickness; unrequited longing
单眼皮	dan	pi	single eyelid
单眼相机	dan	ji	(Tw) single-lens reflex camera
单程票	dan	piao	one-way ticket
单簧管	dan	guan	clarinet
单纯疱疹	dan	zhen	herpes simplex (med.)
单纯疱疹病毒	dan	du	herpes simplex virus (HSV, med.)
单纯词	dan	ci	(linguistics) single-morpheme word; simple word
单细胞	dan	bao	(of an organism) single-celled; unicellular
单细胞生物	dan	wu	unicellular organism
单翼飞机	dan	ji	monoplane
单肩包	dan	bao	shoulder bag
单胞藻	dan	zao	single-celled algae
单脚滑行车	dan	che	scooter
单脚跳	dan	tiao	to hop; to jump on one leg
单色照片	dan	pian	monochrome photo; black and white picture
单色画	dan	hua	monochrome picture; black and white picture
单行本	dan	ben	single volume edition; offprint
单行线	dan	xian	one-way road
单行道	dan	dao	one-way street
单调乏味	dan	wei	monotonous; dull; tedious (idiom)
单身汉	dan	han	bachelor; single man
单身汪	dan	wang	(Internet slang) person who is neither married nor in a relationship (used self-deprecatingly)
单身狗	dan	gou	(Internet slang) person who is neither married nor in a relationship (used self-deprecatingly)
单身贵族	dan	zu	fig. unmarried person; single person (especially one who is comfortable financially)
单车族	dan	zu	(Tw) people who ride bicycles regularly; cyclists
单轮车	dan	che	unicycle
单边主义	dan	yi	unilateralism
单连接站	dan	zhan	single attachment station (telecommunications)
单速车	dan	che	single-speed bicycle; fixed-gear bicycle
单间差	dan	cha	single supplement (for a hotel room)
单院制	dan	zhi	unicameralism; single-house system
单音节	dan	jie	monosyllabic; a monosyllable
单音词	dan	ci	monosyllabic word
单韵母	dan	mu	simple finals
单项式	dan	shi	(math.) monomial
卖光了	mai	le	to be sold out; to be out of stock
卖关子	mai	zi	(in storytelling) to keep listeners in suspense; (in general) to keep people on tenterhooks
卖关节	mai	jie	to solicit a bribe; to accept a bribe
卖力气	mai	qi	to make a living doing manual labor; to give sth all one's got
卖国主义	mai	yi	treason
卖国贼	mai	zei	traitor
卖官鬻爵	mai	jue	(idiom) to grant government positions or official titles in exchange for bribes
卖方市场	mai	chang	seller's market
卖本事	mai	shi	to flaunt a skill; to give display to one's ability; to show off a feat
卖淫女	mai	nv	prostitute; hooker
卖炭翁	mai	weng	The Old Charcoal Seller, poem by Tang poet Bai Juyi 白居易[Bai2 Ju1 yi4]
卖破绽	mai	zhan	to feign an opening in order to hoodwink the opponent (in a fight, combat etc)
卖苦力	mai	li	to make a hard living as unskilled laborer
卖身契	mai	qi	contract selling a person into servitude
卖面子	mai	zi	to show deference to sb by obliging them (or by obliging sb associated with them)
卖风流	mai	liu	to exert flirtatious allure; to entice coquettishly
南三角座	nan	zuo	Triangulum Australe (constellation)
南丰县	nan	xian	Nanfeng, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南丹县	nan	xian	Nandan, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
南乐县	nan	xian	Nanle, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
南亚区域合作联盟	nan	meng	South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC)
南亚大草莺	nan	ying	(bird species of China) Indian grassbird (Graminicola bengalensis)
南京农业大学	nan	xue	Nanjing Agricultural University
南京大学	nan	xue	Nanjing University, NJU
南京大屠杀	nan	sha	the Nanjing Massacre (1937-38)
南京市	nan	shi	Nanjing, sub-provincial city and capital of Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
南京条约	nan	yue	Treaty of Nanjing (1842) that concluded the First Opium War between Qing China and Britain
南京理工大学	nan	xue	Nanjing University of Science and Technology
南京路	nan	lu	Nanjing St., large commercial street in Shanghai
南京邮电大学	nan	xue	Nanjing Post and Communications University
南充市	nan	shi	Nanchong, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
南关区	nan	qu	Nanguan, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
南冕座	nan	zuo	Corona Australis (constellation)
南冰洋	nan	yang	Southern Ocean
南北朝	nan	chao	Northern and Southern dynasties (420-589)
南北极	nan	ji	south and north poles
南北美	nan	mei	North and South America
南北长	nan	chang	north-south distance
南北韩	nan	han	North and South Korea
南十字座	nan	zuo	(astronomy) the Southern Cross
南半球	nan	qiu	the Southern Hemisphere
南华县	nan	xian	Nanhua, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
南华早报	nan	bao	South China Morning Post (newspaper in Hong Kong)
南卡罗来纳	nan	na	South Carolina, US state
南召县	nan	xian	Nanzhao, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
南和区	nan	qu	Nanhe, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
南回归线	nan	xian	Tropic of Capricorn
南城县	nan	xian	Nancheng, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南大洋	nan	yang	Southern Ocean
南天门	nan	men	South Gate to Heaven, the name a gate constructed on various mountains, most notably on Mount Tai 泰山[Tai4 Shan1]; (mythology) southern gate of the Heavenly Palace
南奥塞梯	nan	ti	South Ossetia
南宁市	nan	shi	Nanning, prefecture-level city and capital of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
南安市	nan	shi	Nan'an, a county-level city in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
南安普敦	nan	dun	Southampton, town in south England
南宫市	nan	shi	Nangong, a county-level city in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
南屯区	nan	qu	Nantun District of Taichung, Taiwan
南山区	nan	qu	Nanshan, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong; Nanshan, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
南岔县	nan	xian	Nancha, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
南岗区	nan	qu	Nangang, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
南岳区	nan	qu	Nanyue, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
南岸区	nan	qu	Nan'an, a district of central Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
南川区	nan	qu	Nanchuan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
南平市	nan	shi	Nanping, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
南康区	nan	qu	Nankang, a district of Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南开区	nan	qu	Nankai, a district of Tianjin 天津市[Tian1 jin1 Shi4]
南开大学	nan	xue	Nankai University (Tianjin)
南征北伐	nan	fa	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
南征北战	nan	zhan	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
南征北讨	nan	tao	war on all sides (idiom); fighting from all four quarters
南投县	nan	xian	Nantou County in central Taiwan
南投市	nan	shi	Nantou city in central Taiwan, capital of Nantou county
南拳妈妈	nan	ma	Nan Quan Mama, a Taiwanese Music Group
南斯拉夫	nan	fu	Yugoslavia (former country that existed in various forms from 1918 to 2003)
南方古猿	nan	yuan	Australopithecus
南方周末	nan	mo	Southern Weekend (newspaper)
南方澳渔港	nan	gang	Nanfang-ao Port in Yilan County 宜蘭縣|宜兰县[Yi2 lan2 Xian4], Taiwan
南昌县	nan	xian	Nanchang, a county in Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
南昌市	nan	shi	Nanchang, prefecture-level city and capital of Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
南昌起义	nan	yi	Nanchang Uprising, 1st August 1927, the beginning of military revolt by the Communists in the Chinese Civil War
南明区	nan	qu	Nanming, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
南普陀寺	nan	si	Nanputuo Temple in Xiamen 廈門|厦门[Xia4 men2]
南朝宋	nan	song	Song of the Southern dynasties (420-479), with capital at Nanjing; also known as Liu Song 劉宋|刘宋
南朝梁	nan	liang	Liang of the Southern dynasties (502-557)
南朝陈	nan	chen	Chen of the Southern dynasties (557-589)
南朝鲜	nan	xian	South Korea
南朝齐	nan	qi	Qi of Southern dynasties (479-502)
南木林	nan	lin	see 南木林縣|南木林县[Nan2 mu4 lin2 Xian4]
南木林县	nan	xian	Namling, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
南极光	nan	guang	southern lights; aurora australis
南极圈	nan	quan	Antarctic Circle
南极座	nan	zuo	Octans (constellation)
南极洲	nan	zhou	Antarctica
南极洲半岛	nan	dao	the Antarctic Peninsula (jutting out towards South America)
南极海	nan	hai	Southern Ocean
南极界	nan	jie	Antarctic realm
南柯一梦	nan	meng	lit. a dream of Nanke; fig. dreams of grandeur
南江县	nan	xian	Nanjiang, a county in Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
南沙区	nan	qu	Nansha, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong; Nansha, a district of Sansha City 三沙市[San1 sha1 Shi4], Hainan
南沙群岛	nan	dao	Spratly Islands, disputed between China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam
南波万	nan	wan	(Internet slang) number one (loanword)
南泥湾	nan	wan	Nanniwan, township 45 km south of Yan'an 延安[Yan2 an1], Shaanxi; "Nanniwan", a song written in 1943 to celebrate the achievements of communist revolutionaries in Nanniwan, where the 359th brigade of the Eighth Route Army reclaimed barren land as part of a campaign to become self-sufficient in food during a blockade by enemy forces
南洋商报	nan	bao	Nanyang Siang Pau (Malay's oldest newspaper)
南洋理工大学	nan	xue	Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
南派螳螂	nan	lang	Chow Gar - "Southern Praying Mantis" - Martial Art
南浔区	nan	qu	Nanxun, a district of Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
南浦市	nan	shi	Nampo city in North Korea
南海区	nan	qu	Nanhai, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
南海子	nan	zi	Nanhaizi, name used to refer to various places, including 草海[Cao3 hai3], 南苑[Nan2 yuan4] and the Nanhaizi Wetland in Baotou, Inner Mongolia
南海舰队	nan	dui	South Sea Fleet
南涧县	nan	xian	see 南澗彝族自治縣|南涧彝族自治县[Nan2 jian4 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
南涧彝族自治县	nan	xian	Nanjian Yi Autonomous County, in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
南港区	nan	qu	Nangang, a district of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
南湖区	nan	qu	Nanhu, a district of Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
南溪区	nan	qu	Nanxi, a district of Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
南漳县	nan	xian	Nanzhang, a county in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
南澳县	nan	xian	Nan'ao, a county in Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
南澳大利亚州	nan	zhou	South Australia, Australian state
南澳岛	nan	dao	Nan'ao Island in Shantou 汕頭|汕头[Shan4 tou2], Guangdong
南灰伯劳	nan	lao	(bird species of China) southern grey shrike (Lanius meridionalis)
南瓜灯	nan	deng	jack-o'-lantern
南皮县	nan	xian	Nanpi, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
南票区	nan	qu	Nanpiao, a district of Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
南箕北斗	nan	dou	lit. the Winnowing Basket in the southern sky, and the Big Dipper in the north (idiom); fig. sth which, despite its name, is of no practical use
南美梨	nan	li	avocado (Persea americana)
南美洲	nan	zhou	South America
南联盟	nan	meng	Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (1992–2003) (abbr. for 南斯拉夫聯盟共和國|南斯拉夫联盟共和国[Nan2 si1 la1 fu1 Lian2 meng2 Gong4 he2 guo2])
南胶河	nan	he	Nanjiao River (Shandong province, flows into Qingdao harbor)
南腔北调	nan	diao	a regional accent
南芬区	nan	qu	Nanfen, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
南苏丹	nan	dan	South Sudan
南荷兰	nan	lan	South Holland, a province of the Netherlands
南西诸岛	nan	dao	Ryukyu Islands; Okinawa 沖繩|冲绳[Chong1 sheng2] and other islands of modern Japan
南诏国	nan	guo	Nanzhao, 8th and 9th century kingdom in Yunnan, at times allied with Tang against Tibetan Tubo pressure
南谯区	nan	qu	Nanqiao, a district of Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
南赡部洲	nan	zhou	Jambudvipa
南辕北辙	nan	zhe	to act in a way that defeats one's purpose (idiom)
南边儿	nan	r	erhua variant of 南邊|南边[nan2 bian5]
南达科他	nan	ta	South Dakota, US state
南迦巴瓦峰	nan	feng	Namcha Barwa (7,782 m), Himalayan mountain
南通市	nan	shi	Nantong, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
南郊区	nan	qu	Nanjiao district of Datong city 大同市[Da4 tong2 shi4], Shanxi
南郑区	nan	qu	Nanzheng, a district of Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
南部县	nan	xian	Nanbu, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
南门二	nan	er	Alpha Centauri or Rigel Kentaurus
南阳县	nan	xian	Nanyang county in Henan
南阳市	nan	shi	Nanyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
南陵县	nan	xian	Nanling, a county in Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
南雄市	nan	shi	Nanxiong, a county-level city in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
南靖县	nan	xian	Nanjing, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
南非茶	nan	cha	rooibos tea
南非语	nan	yu	Afrikaans (language)
南飞过冬	nan	dong	(of birds) to migrate south for the winter
南高加索	nan	suo	Transcaucasia, aka the South Caucasus
南鱼座	nan	zuo	Piscis Austrinus (constellation)
南齐书	nan	shu	History of Qi of the Southern Dynasties, seventh of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled by Xiao Zixian 蕭子顯|萧子显[Xiao1 Zi3 xian3] in 537 during Liang of the Southern Dynasties 南朝梁[Nan2 chao2 Liang2], 59 scrolls
博乐市	bo	shi	Bole, a county-level city in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
博伊西	bo	xi	Boise, Idaho
博兴县	bo	xian	Boxing, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
博古通今	bo	jin	conversant with things past and present; erudite and informed
博士买驴	bo	lv	(idiom) to act like the scholar who wrote at length about buying a donkey without even mentioning the word "donkey"; to write at length without ever getting to the point
博士后	bo	hou	postdoc; postdoctoral fellow
博士学位	bo	wei	doctoral degree; PhD
博士导师	bo	shi	doctoral advisor; PhD supervisor
博士山	bo	shan	Box Hill, a suburb of Melbourne, Australia with a large Chinese community
博士生	bo	sheng	PhD student; doctoral candidate
博士茶	bo	cha	rooibos tea
博大精深	bo	shen	(idiom) wide-ranging and profound
博学多才	bo	cai	(idiom) erudite and multitalented; versatile and able
博客写手	bo	shou	blogger; blog writer
博客圈	bo	quan	blogosphere
博客话剧	bo	ju	blog drama (netspeak)
博尔塔拉	bo	la	see 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
博尔塔拉州	bo	zhou	see 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
博尔塔拉蒙古自治州	bo	zhou	Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
博尔德	bo	de	Boulder, Colorado
博尔赫斯	bo	si	Jorge Luis Borges
博尔顿	bo	dun	Bolton (name)
博山区	bo	qu	Boshan, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
博帕尔	bo	er	Bhopal, capital of central Indian state of Madhya Pradesh 中央邦[Zhong1 yang1 bang1]
博弈论	bo	lun	game theory
博德利图书馆	bo	guan	Bodleian Library (Oxford)
博拉博拉岛	bo	dao	Bora Bora, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia
博文约礼	bo	li	vigorously pursuing knowledge, while scrupulously abiding by the rules of decorum (idiom)
博斯普鲁斯	bo	si	Bosphorus
博斯沃思	bo	si	Bosworth (name); Stephen Bosworth (1939-), US academic and diplomat, special representative for policy on North Korea from 2009
博斯腾湖	bo	hu	Bosten Lake in Xinjiang
博望区	bo	qu	Bowang, a district of Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
博格多	bo	duo	Bogdo, last Khan of Mongolia
博格多汗宫	bo	gong	the Palace of the Bogdo Khan in Ulan Bator, Mongolia
博格达山脉	bo	mai	Bogda Shan mountain range in the Tian Shan mountains
博格达峰	bo	feng	Mt Bogda (5,445 m) in eastern Tianshan
博洛尼亚	bo	ya	Bologna
博湖县	bo	xian	Bohu, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
博爱县	bo	xian	Bo'ai, a county in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
博爱座	bo	zuo	(Tw) priority seat (on a bus etc)
博物多闻	bo	wen	wide and knowledgeable; well-informed and experienced
博物学	bo	xue	natural history
博物学家	bo	jia	naturalist (expert in natural history)
博物洽闻	bo	wen	to have a wide knowledge of many subjects (idiom)
博物院	bo	yuan	museum
博物馆	bo	guan	museum
博登湖	bo	hu	Lake Constance (between Germany, Austria and Switzerland)
博白县	bo	xian	Bobai, a county in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
博眼球	bo	qiu	to attract attention; to catch attention
博福斯	bo	si	Bofors, Swedish arms company involved in major corruption case during 1980s
博科圣地	bo	di	Boko Haram, Islamic insurgent group in north Nigeria
博罗县	bo	xian	Boluo, a county in Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
博美犬	bo	quan	Pomeranian (dog breed)
博而不精	bo	jing	extensive but not refined (idiom); to know something about everything; jack-of-all-trades, master of none
博茨瓦纳	bo	na	Botswana
博蒙特	bo	te	Beaumont
博览会	bo	hui	an exposition; an international fair
博识多通	bo	tong	knowledgeable and perspicacious (idiom)
博识洽闻	bo	wen	knowledgeable; erudite (idiom)
博野县	bo	xian	Boye, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
博闻多识	bo	shi	learned and erudite; knowledgeable and experienced
博闻强记	bo	ji	have wide learning and a retentive memory; have encyclopedic knowledge
博闻强识	bo	zhi	erudite; widely read and knowledgeable
博鳌亚洲论坛	bo	tan	Boao Forum for Asia, founded in 2001
博鳌镇	bo	zhen	Bo'ao, coastal town in Hainan, a tourist destination and the site of the annual Boao Forum for Asia
卜卜米	bo	mi	Rice Krispies
卜昼卜夜	bu	ye	day and night (to toil, to abandon oneself to pleasure etc)
占上风	zhan	feng	to take the lead; to gain the upper hand
占下风	zhan	feng	to be at a disadvantage
占为己有	zhan	you	to appropriate to oneself (what rightfully belongs to others)
占优势	zhan	shi	to predominate; to occupy a dominant position
占位符	zhan	fu	(computing) placeholder
占便宜	zhan	yi	advantageous; favorable; to benefit at others' expense
占地儿	zhan	r	to take up space
占地方	zhan	fang	to take up space
占地面积	zhan	ji	floor area; occupied area; footprint (of a building, piece of equipment etc)
占星学	zhan	xue	astrology
占星家	zhan	jia	astrologer
占星师	zhan	shi	astrologer
占星术	zhan	shu	astrology
占着茅坑不拉屎	zhan	shi	lit. to occupy a latrine but not shit (proverb); fig. to be a dog in the manger
占领者	zhan	zhe	occupant
卡丁车	ka	che	go-kart
卡乐星	ka	xing	Carl's Jr. (fast-food restaurant chain)
卡介苗	ka	miao	BCG vaccine; bacillus Calmette-Guérin vaccine
卡仕达	ka	da	(loanword) custard
卡仙尼	ka	ni	Cassini space probe
卡侬头	ka	tou	XLR connector
卡典西德	ka	de	(Tw) adhesive vinyl sheet, used esp. for decals and computer-cut lettering (loanword from "cutting sheet")
卡内基	ka	ji	Carnegie (name); Andrew Carnegie (1835-1919), Scots American steel millionaire and philanthropist
卡内基梅隆大学	ka	xue	Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh
卡利亚里	ka	li	Cagliari, Sardinia
卡利卡特	ka	te	Calicut, town on Arabian sea in Kerala, India
卡利多尼亚	ka	ya	Caledonia
卡利科	ka	ke	calico (woven cloth from Caldicot, Kerala, India)
卡到阴	ka	yin	(Tw) to be possessed; to be bewitched
卡哇伊	ka	yi	cute; adorable; charming (loanword from Japanese)
卡哇依	ka	yi	variant of 卡哇伊[ka3 wa1 yi1]
卡地亚	ka	ya	Cartier (brand)
卡塔尔	ka	er	Qatar
卡塔尼亚	ka	ya	Catania, Sicily
卡塔赫纳	ka	na	Cartagena
卡士达	ka	da	(Tw) (loanword) custard
卡夫卡	ka	ka	Franz Kafka (1883-1924), Czech Jewish writer
卡宾枪	ka	qiang	carbine rifle (loanword)
卡尔加里	ka	li	Calgary, largest city of Alberta, Canada
卡尔巴拉	ka	la	Karbala (city in Iraq)
卡尔德龙	ka	long	Calderon (Hispanic name)
卡尔扎伊	ka	yi	Hamid Karzai (1957-), Afghan politician, president 2004-2014
卡尔文	ka	wen	Calvin (name)
卡尔文克莱因	ka	yin	Calvin Klein CK (brand)
卡尔斯鲁厄	ka	e	Karlsruhe (city in Germany)
卡尔森	ka	sen	(surname) Carlson; Carlsen; Karlsen
卡尔顿	ka	dun	Carleton
卡尼丁	ka	ding	carnitine (loanword) (biochemistry)
卡巴斯基	ka	ji	Kaspersky (computer security product brand)
卡巴莱	ka	lai	cabaret (loanword)
卡布其诺	ka	nuo	cappuccino (loanword)
卡布其诺咖啡	ka	fei	cappuccino coffee
卡布奇诺	ka	nuo	cappuccino (loanword)
卡式炉	ka	lu	portable gas stove (fueled by a gas cartridge)
卡扎菲	ka	fei	(Colonel Muammar) Gaddafi (1942-2011), de facto leader of Libya from 1969-2011
卡拉什尼科夫	ka	fu	Kalashnikov (the AK-47 assault rifle)
卡拉卡斯	ka	si	(Tw) Caracas, capital of Venezuela
卡拉奇	ka	qi	Karachi (Pakistan)
卡拉姆昌德	ka	de	Karamchand (name)
卡拉季奇	ka	qi	Karadžić (Serbian surname); Radovan Karadžić (1945–), former Bosnian Serb leader, convicted war criminal; Vuk Karadžić (1787–1864), Serbian linguist
卡拉布里亚	ka	ya	Calabria, southernmost Italian province
卡拉比拉	ka	la	Karabilah (Iraqi city)
卡拉胶	ka	jiao	carageenan (chemistry)
卡拉马佐夫兄弟	ka	di	Brothers Karamazov by Dostoevsky 陀思妥耶夫斯基[Tuo2 si1 tuo3 ye1 fu1 si1 ji1]
卡文迪什	ka	shi	Cavendish (name); Henry Cavendish (1731-1810), English nobleman and pioneer experimental scientist
卡斯特利翁	ka	weng	Castellón
卡斯特罗	ka	luo	Castro (name); Fidel Castro or Fidel Alejandro Castro Ruz (1926-2016), Cuban revolutionary leader, prime minister 1959-1976, president 1976-2008
卡斯特里	ka	li	Castries, capital of Saint Lucia
卡斯翠	ka	cui	Castries, capital of Saint Lucia (Tw)
卡斯蒂利亚	ka	ya	Castilla, old Spanish kingdom; modern Spanish provinces of Castilla-Leon and Castilla-La Mancha
卡斯蒂利亚语	ka	yu	Castilian Spanish
卡桑德拉	ka	la	Cassandra (given name); Cassandra (character in Greek mythology)
卡梅伦	ka	lun	Cameron (name)
卡森城	ka	cheng	Carson City, capital of Nevada
卡波耶拉	ka	la	capoeira (loanword)
卡波西氏肉瘤	ka	liu	Kaposi's sarcoma
卡洛娜	ka	na	calzone (Italian pocket), folded pizza
卡洛斯	ka	si	Carlos (name)
卡洛驰	ka	chi	Crocs, Inc.
卡片机	ka	ji	compact digital camera; point-and-shoot camera
卡特尔	ka	er	cartel (loanword)
卡特彼勒公司	ka	si	Caterpillar Inc.
卡珊德拉	ka	la	Cassandra (given name); Cassandra (character in Greek mythology)
卡瓦斯	ka	si	(loanword) kvass
卡瓦格博峰	ka	feng	Mt Kawakarpo (6740 m) in Yunnan, the highest peak of Meili Snow Mountains 梅里雪山[Mei2 li3 Xue3 shan1]
卡秋莎	ka	sha	Katyusha (name); name of a Russian wartime song; nickname of a rocket launcher used by the Red Army in WWII
卡纳塔克邦	ka	bang	Karnataka (formerly Mysore), southwest Indian state, capital Bangalore 班加羅爾|班加罗尔[Ban1 jia1 luo2 er3]
卡纳维尔角	ka	jiao	Cape Canaveral, Florida
卡纳维拉尔角	ka	jiao	Cape Canaveral, Florida, home of Kennedy space center 肯尼迪航天中心[Ken3 ni2 di2 Hang2 tian1 Zhong1 xin1]
卡纳蕾	ka	lei	canelé (a French pastry) (loanword)
卡纳达语	ka	yu	Kannada (language)
卡罗利纳	ka	na	Carolina (Puerto Rico)
卡美拉	ka	la	Gamera (Japanese ガメラ Gamera), Japanese movie monster
卡美洛	ka	luo	Camelot, seat of legendary King Arthur
卡脖子	qia	zi	to squeeze the throat; (fig.) to have in a stranglehold; critical
卡若区	ka	qu	Karub, a district of Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
卡萨布兰卡	ka	ka	Casablanca (Morocco's economic capital)
卡萨诺瓦	ka	wa	Giacomo Casanova (1725-1798), Italian adventurer known for womanizing
卡西尼	ka	ni	Cassini (proper name)
卡西欧	ka	ou	Casio
卡西米尔效应	ka	ying	Casimir effect (attraction between two parallel metal plates due to quantum mechanical vacuum effects)
卡路里	ka	li	(loanword) calorie
卡骆驰	ka	chi	Crocs, Inc.
卢克索	lu	suo	Luxor, city in Egypt
卢卡斯	lu	si	Lucas (name)
卢卡申科	lu	ke	Aleksandr Grigoryevich Lukachenko, president of Belarus from 1994
卢塞恩	lu	en	Lucerne (city in Switzerland)
卢安达	lu	da	Rwanda (Tw)
卢布尔雅那	lu	na	Ljubljana, capital of Slovenia
卢恩字母	lu	mu	rune
卢旺达	lu	da	Rwanda
卢森堡	lu	bao	Luxembourg
卢武铉	lu	xuan	Roh Moo-hyun (1946-2009), South Korean lawyer and politician, president 2003-2008
卢比安纳	lu	na	Ljubljana, capital of Slovenia (Tw)
卢氏县	lu	xian	Lushi, a county in Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
卢沟桥	lu	qiao	Lugou Bridge or Marco Polo Bridge in southwest of Beijing, the scene of a conflict that marked the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War 抗日戰爭|抗日战争[Kang4 Ri4 Zhan4 zheng1]
卢沟桥事变	lu	bian	Marco Polo Bridge Incident of 7th July 1937, regarded as the beginning of the Second Sino-Japanese War 抗日戰爭|抗日战争[Kang4 Ri4 Zhan4 zheng1]
卢泰愚	lu	yu	Roh Tae-woo (1932-), South Korean politician, president 1988-1993
卢浮宫	lu	gong	the Louvre, museum in Paris
卢照邻	lu	lin	Lu Zhaolin (637-689), one of the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang 初唐四傑|初唐四杰[Chu1 Tang2 Si4 jie2]
卢瑟福	lu	fu	Rutherford (name); Ernest Rutherford (1871-1937), early nuclear physicist from New Zealand
卢瓦尔河	lu	he	Loire River, France
卢萨卡	lu	ka	Lusaka, capital of Zambia
卢龙县	lu	xian	Lulong, a county in Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
卤代烃	lu	ting	haloalkane (obtained from hydrocarbon by substituting halogen for hydrogen, e.g. chlorobenzene or the CFCs)
卤化物	lu	wu	halide (i.e. fluoride, chloride, bromide etc)
卤化银	lu	yin	silver halide (usually chloride) used to fix photos
卤素灯	lu	deng	halogen lamp
卧不安	wo	an	restless insomnia
卧果儿	wo	r	a poached egg
卧薪尝胆	wo	dan	(lit.) to sleep on brushwood and taste gall (like King Goujian of Yue 勾踐|勾践[Gou1 jian4], in order to recall one's humiliations) (idiom); (fig.) to maintain one's resolve for revenge
卧虎藏龙	wo	long	Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, movie by Ang Lee 李安[Li3 An1]
卧龙区	wo	qu	Wolong, a district of Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
卧龙大熊猫保护区	wo	qu	Wolong Giant Panda Nature Reserve in Wenchuan county, northwest Sichuan
卧龙岗	wo	gang	Wollongong, Australia
卧龙自然保护区	wo	qu	Wolong National Nature Reserve in Wenchuan county, northwest Sichuan, home of the giant panda 大熊貓|大熊猫[da4 xiong2 mao1]
卫东区	wei	qu	Weidong, a district of Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
卫奕信	wei	xin	David Clive Wilson, Baron Wilson of Tillyorn (1935-), British diplomat and China expert, Governor of Hong Kong 1986-1992
卫星图	wei	tu	satellite photo
卫星图像	wei	xiang	satellite photo
卫星城	wei	cheng	"satellite" town; edge city; exurb
卫星导航	wei	hang	satellite navigation; sat-nav
卫星导航系统	wei	tong	satellite navigation system; sat-nav
卫星电视	wei	shi	satellite TV
卫氏朝鲜	wei	xian	Wiman Korea (195-108 BC), historical kingdom in Manchuria, Liaoning and North Korea
卫满朝鲜	wei	xian	Wiman Korea (195-108 BC), historical kingdom in Manchuria, Liaoning and North Korea
卫滨区	wei	qu	Weibin, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
卫理公会	wei	hui	Methodists
卫生下水道	wei	dao	(Tw) sanitary sewer system
卫生丸	wei	wan	mothball; (jocular term) bullet
卫生厅	wei	ting	(provincial) department of health
卫生套	wei	tao	condom; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
卫生官员	wei	yuan	health official
卫生局	wei	ju	health office; bureau of hygiene
卫生巾	wei	jin	sanitary towel
卫生棉	wei	mian	sterilized absorbent cotton wool (used for dressings or cleansing wounds); (Tw) sanitary napkin
卫生棉条	wei	tiao	tampon
卫生球	wei	qiu	mothball
卫生用纸	wei	zhi	toilet paper
卫生筷	wei	kuai	disposable chopsticks
卫生纸	wei	zhi	toilet paper; tissues
卫生署	wei	shu	health bureau (or office, or department, or agency)
卫生胡	wei	hu	toothbrush moustache; Hitler moustache
卫生衣	wei	yi	(dialect) thermal undershirt; long underwear top
卫生裤	wei	ku	(dialect) thermal underwear bottoms; long underwear pants
卫生设备	wei	bei	sanitary equipment
卫生部	wei	bu	Ministry of Health
卫生间	wei	jian	bathroom; toilet; WC
卫生陶瓷	wei	ci	chamber pot; commode
卫留成	wei	cheng	Wei Liucheng (1946-), fifth governor of Hainan
卫辉市	wei	shi	Weihui, a county-level city in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
卫道士	wei	shi	traditionalist; moralist; champion (of a cause)
卯起来	mao	lai	(coll.) to get enthusiastic; to put in all one's energy
印制电路	yin	lu	printed circuit
印制电路板	yin	ban	printed circuit board
印刷业	yin	ye	typography; printing business
印刷体	yin	ti	printed style (as opposed to cursive)
印刷厂	yin	chang	printing house; print shop
印刷品	yin	pin	printed products
印刷所	yin	suo	printing press; printing office; printer
印刷术	yin	shu	printing; printing technology
印刷机	yin	ji	printing press
印刷版	yin	ban	printing plate; printed version (of a digital publication); printing (as in "1st printing" etc)
印刷电路板	yin	ban	printed circuit board
印刷量	yin	liang	print run
印古什	yin	shi	Ingushetia, republic in southwestern Russia
印台区	yin	qu	Yintai, a district of Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
印地语	yin	yu	Hindi (language)
印堂穴	yin	xue	yintang, acupuncture point at the midpoint between the medial ends of the eyebrows
印头鱼	yin	yu	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
印子钱	yin	qian	usury; high interest loan (in former times)
印尼盾	yin	dun	Indonesian rupiah
印尼语	yin	yu	Indonesian language
印度人	yin	ren	Indian (person); CL:個|个[ge4]; Indian people
印度人民党	yin	dang	Bharatiya Janata Party
印度国大党	yin	dang	Indian Congress party
印度寿带	yin	dai	(bird species of China) Indian paradise flycatcher (Terpsiphone paradisi)
印度尼西亚	yin	ya	Indonesia
印度尼西亚语	yin	yu	Indonesian language
印度支那	yin	na	Indochina
印度支那半岛	yin	dao	Indochina (old term, esp. colonial period); now written 中南半島|中南半岛[Zhong1 nan2 Ban4 dao3]
印度教	yin	jiao	Hinduism
印度教徒	yin	tu	Hindu; adherent of Hinduism
印度斯坦	yin	tan	Hindustan
印度时报	yin	bao	India Times
印度河	yin	he	Indus River
印度洋	yin	yang	Indian Ocean
印度眼镜蛇	yin	she	Indian cobra (Naja naja)
印度航空公司	yin	si	Air India
印度金黄鹂	yin	li	(bird species of China) Indian golden oriole (Oriolus kundoo)
印度音乐	yin	yue	Bhangra, Indian music (music genre)
印度鬼椒	yin	jiao	see 斷魂椒|断魂椒[duan4 hun2 jiao1]
印戒细胞	yin	bao	(medicine) signet ring cell
印把子	yin	zi	seal of authority; official seal
印支半岛	yin	dao	Indochina (abbr. for colonial term 印度支那半島|印度支那半岛[Yin4 du4 zhi1 na4 Ban4 dao3]); (now written 中南半島|中南半岛[Zhong1 nan2 Ban4 dao3])
印支期	yin	qi	Indo-Chinese epoch (geology); Indosinian orogeny
印支绿鹊	yin	que	(bird species of China) Indochinese green magpie (Cissa hypoleuca)
印欧人	yin	ren	Indo-European (person)
印欧文	yin	wen	Indo-European (language)
印欧语	yin	yu	Indo-European (language)
印欧语系	yin	xi	Indo-European family of languages
印欧语言	yin	yan	Indo-European (language)
印江县	yin	xian	see 印江土家族苗族自治縣|印江土家族苗族自治县[Yin4 jiang1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
印第安	yin	an	(American) Indian; native American; indigenous peoples of the Americas
印第安人	yin	ren	American Indians
印第安座	yin	zuo	Indus (constellation)
印第安纳	yin	na	Indiana, US state
印第安纳波利斯	yin	si	Indianapolis, Indiana
印缅斑嘴鸭	yin	ya	(bird species of China) Indian spot-billed duck (Anas poecilorhyncha)
印缅褐头雀鹛	yin	mei	(bird species of China) manipur fulvetta (Fulvetta manipurensis)
印花税	yin	shui	stamp duty
印表机	yin	ji	printer (Tw)
印象主义	yin	yi	impressionism
印象分	yin	fen	points gained by making a good impression; kudos; brownie points
印象派	yin	pai	impressionism
印钞机	yin	ji	money printer
印鼠客蚤	yin	zao	oriental rat flea (Xenopsylla cheopis)
危在旦夕	wei	xi	in imminent peril (idiom); on the brink of crisis
危地马拉	wei	la	Guatemala
危地马拉人	wei	ren	Guatemalan (person)
危如朝露	wei	lu	precarious as the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
危如累卵	wei	luan	precarious as pile of eggs (idiom); ready to fall and break at any moment; in a dangerous state
危害性	wei	xing	harmfulness
危害评价	wei	jia	hazard assessment
危机四伏	wei	fu	danger lurks on every side (idiom)
危机感	wei	gan	sense of crisis; acute awareness of looming danger or instability (often actively cultivated to spur preparedness or action)
危而不持	wei	chi	national danger, but no support (idiom, from Analects); the future of the nation is at stake but no-one comes to the rescue
危若朝露	wei	lu	precarious as morning dew (idiom); unlikely to last out the day
危言危行	wei	xing	upright and plainspoken (idiom)
危言耸听	wei	ting	frightening words to scare people (idiom); alarmist talk; reds under the beds
危辞耸听	wei	ting	to startle sb with scary tale
危重病人	wei	ren	critically ill patient
危险品	wei	pin	hazardous materials
危险警告灯	wei	deng	hazard lights
即兴之作	ji	zuo	improvisation
即兴发挥	ji	hui	improvisation
即墨区	ji	qu	Jimo, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
即将来临	ji	lin	imminent
即指即译	ji	yi	point-and-translate (computing)
即插即用	ji	yong	plug-and-play
即时制	ji	zhi	real-time (gaming)
即时即地	ji	di	moment-to-moment
即时消息	ji	xi	instant message
即时通讯	ji	xun	instant messaging
即期品	ji	pin	product approaching its expiry date (Tw)
即溶咖啡	ji	fei	instant coffee
却之不恭	que	gong	to refuse would be impolite
卵圆形	luan	xing	oval; ellipsoidal
卵圆窗	luan	chuang	(anatomy) oval window (between the middle and inner ear)
卵巢窝	luan	wo	(anatomy) ovarian fossa
卵母细胞	luan	bao	(biology) oocyte; ovocyte
卵用鸡	luan	ji	laying hen
卵磷脂	luan	zhi	lecithin (phospholipid found in egg yolk)
卵精巢	luan	chao	ovaries and testes
卵细胞	luan	bao	egg cell
卵胎生	luan	sheng	ovoviviparous
卵黄囊	luan	nang	yolk sac (ectodermal cells attaching fetus to uterus before the development of the placenta)
卵黄管	luan	guan	vitelline duct
卵黄腺	luan	xian	vitelline glands; vitellaria (in biology)
卷发器	juan	qi	hair curler
卷发棒	juan	bang	curling iron
卷发筒	juan	tong	hair roller
卷土重来	juan	lai	lit. to return in a swirl of dust (idiom); fig. to regroup and come back even stronger; to make a comeback
卷地皮	juan	pi	to plunder the land and extort from the peasant; corrupt practice
卷尾猴	juan	hou	white-headed capuchin (Cebus capucinus)
卷层云	juan	yun	cirrostratus (cloud); also written 捲層雲|卷层云[juan3 ceng2 yun2]
卷帘门	juan	men	variant of 捲簾門|卷帘门[juan3 lian2 men2]
卷帙浩繁	juan	fan	a huge amount (of books and papers)
卷心菜	juan	cai	cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata) (CL:棵[ke1])
卷扬机	juan	ji	a capstan
卷积云	juan	yun	cirrocumulus (cloud)
卷笔刀	juan	dao	pencil sharpener (blade-only type)
卷线器	juan	qi	fishing reel
卷羽鹈鹕	juan	hu	(bird species of China) Dalmatian pelican (Pelecanus crispus)
卷舌元音	juan	yin	retroflex vowel (e.g. the final r of putonghua)
卷铺盖	juan	gai	to roll up one's bedding; to pack one's things; (fig.) to quit; (fig.) to get fired; to get the sack
卷铺盖走人	juan	ren	to pack one's things and leave
卸磨杀驴	xie	lv	lit. to kill the donkey when the grinding is done (idiom); fig. to get rid of sb once he has ceased to be useful
卸肩儿	xie	r	lit. a weight off one's shoulders; fig. to resign a post; to lay down a burden
卿卿我我	qing	wo	to bill and coo (idiom); to whisper sweet nothings to one another; to be very much in love
厂字旁	chang	pang	name of "cliff" 厂 radical in simplified Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 27)
厂礼拜	chang	bai	(old) factory-designated weekly day off in lieu of Sunday; day off (work)
厄什塔	e	ta	Ørsta (city in Norway)
厄利垂亚	e	ya	Eritrea (Tw)
厄勒布鲁	e	lu	Örebro (city in Sweden)
厄勒海峡	e	xia	Øresund; The Sound (strait between Denmark and Sweden)
厄尔尼诺	e	nuo	(meteorology) El Niño
厄尔尼诺现象	e	xiang	El Niño effect, equatorial climatic variation over the Pacific Ocean
厄尔布鲁士	e	shi	(Mount) Elbrus, the highest peak of the Caucasus mountains, southwest Russia
厄洛斯	e	si	Eros (Cupid)
厄瓜多	e	duo	Ecuador (Tw)
厄瓜多尔	e	er	Ecuador
厄立特里亚	e	ya	Eritrea
历下区	li	qu	Lixia, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
历久弥坚	li	jian	to become more resolute with the passing of time (idiom)
历久弥新	li	xin	lit. long in existence but ever new (idiom); fig. timeless; unfading
历代志上	li	shang	First book of Chronicles
历代志下	li	xia	Second book of Chronicles
历历可数	li	shu	each one distinguishable
历历在目	li	mu	vivid in one's mind (idiom)
历史上	li	shang	historical; in history
历史事件	li	jian	historical incident
历史人物	li	wu	historical person
历史剧	li	ju	historical drama
历史博物馆	li	guan	historical museum
历史唯物主义	li	yi	historical materialism (Marx's theory of history)
历史学	li	xue	history
历史学家	li	jia	historian
历史家	li	jia	historian
历史性	li	xing	historic
历史悠久	li	jiu	long-established; time-honored
历史意义	li	yi	historic significance
历史成本	li	ben	historic cost (accounting)
历史新高	li	gao	all-time high
历史时期	li	qi	historical period
历史沿革	li	ge	historical development; background
历史版本	li	ben	historical version; a previous version (of an app, document etc)
历史背景	li	jing	historical background
历史观点	li	dian	historical standpoint
历史遗产	li	chan	heritage; historical legacy
历史遗迹	li	ji	historic site
历史重演	li	yan	history repeats itself
历城区	li	qu	Licheng, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
历尽沧桑	li	sang	to have been through the hardships of life; to have been through the mill
历朝通俗演义	li	yi	Dramatized history of successive dynasties (from Han to Republican China) by Cai Dongfan 蔡東藩|蔡东藩
厉行节约	li	yue	to practice strict economy (idiom)
压倒性	ya	xing	overwhelming
压克力	ya	li	(Tw) (loanword) acrylic
压力容器	ya	qi	pressure vessel; autoclave
压力山大	ya	da	(jocular) to be under great pressure (a pun on 亞歷山大|亚历山大[Ya4 li4 shan1 da4])
压力强度	ya	du	pressure (as measured)
压力计	ya	ji	pressure gauge; manometer; piezometer
压力锅	ya	guo	pressure cooker
压台戏	ya	xi	last item on a show; grand finale
压岁钱	ya	qian	money given to children as a gift on Chinese New Year's Eve
压根儿	ya	r	erhua variant of 壓根|压根[ya4 gen1]
压电体	ya	ti	piezo-electric
压线钳	ya	qian	crimping pliers; amp pliers
压缩包	ya	bao	(computing) compressed archive file
压缩器	ya	qi	compressor
压缩机	ya	ji	compactor; compressor
压缩比	ya	bi	compression ratio
压舌板	ya	ban	tongue depressor; spatula
压舱石	ya	shi	ballast stone; (fig.) source of stability
压蒜器	ya	qi	garlic press
压路机	ya	ji	road roller
压轴好戏	ya	xi	main event; grand finale
压轴戏	ya	xi	final and most important item on a program; grand finale; (traditional Chinese opera) penultimate item on the program; Taiwan pr. [ya1zhou2xi4]
压马路	ya	lu	variant of 軋馬路|轧马路[ya4 ma3 lu4]; Taiwan pr. [ya1 ma3 lu4]
厌女症	yan	zheng	misogyny (rhetorical term framing misogyny as a social or ideological pathology)
厌氧菌	yan	jun	anaerobic bacteria
厌酷球孢子菌	yan	jun	Coccidioides immitis
厌食症	yan	zheng	anorexia
厚养薄葬	hou	zang	generous care but a thrifty funeral; to look after one's parents generously, but not waste money on a lavish funeral
厚古薄今	hou	jin	to revere the past and neglect the present (idiom)
厚嘴啄花鸟	hou	niao	(bird species of China) thick-billed flowerpecker (Dicaeum agile)
厚嘴绿鸠	hou	jiu	(bird species of China) thick-billed green pigeon (Treron curvirostra)
厚嘴苇莺	hou	ying	(bird species of China) thick-billed warbler (Arundinax aedon)
厚底鞋	hou	xie	platform shoes
厚德载物	hou	wu	with great virtue one can take charge of the world (idiom)
厚此薄彼	hou	bi	to favour one and discriminate against the other
厚死薄生	hou	sheng	lit. to praise the dead and revile the living; fig. to live in the past (idiom)
厚生劳动省	hou	sheng	Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (Japan)
厚生相	hou	xiang	minister of health (of Japan, UK etc)
厚生省	hou	sheng	Ministry of Health and Welfare (Japan) (replaced in 2001 by 厚生勞動省|厚生劳动省[Hou4 sheng1 Lao2 dong4 sheng3])
厚积薄发	hou	fa	lit. to have accumulated knowledge and deliver it slowly (idiom); good preparation is the key to success; to be well prepared
厚脸皮	hou	pi	brazen; shameless; impudent
厚薄规	hou	gui	feeler gauge
厚颜无耻	hou	chi	shameless
厝火积薪	cuo	xin	lit. to put a fire under a pile of firewood (idiom); fig. hidden danger; imminent danger
原产国	yuan	guo	country of origin
原产地	yuan	di	original source; place of origin; provenance
原住民	yuan	min	indigenous peoples; aborigine
原住民族	yuan	zu	original inhabitant; indigenous people
原作版	yuan	ban	Urtext edition
原典版	yuan	ban	(Tw) Urtext edition
原函数	yuan	shu	antiderivative
原则上	yuan	shang	in principle; generally
原则性	yuan	xing	principled
原创力	yuan	li	creativity
原创性	yuan	xing	originality
原动力	yuan	li	motive force; prime mover; first cause
原原本本	yuan	ben	from beginning to end; in its entirety; in accord with fact
原发性进行性失语	yuan	yu	primary progressive aphasia (PPA), speech disorder (sometimes related to dementia)
原地踏步	yuan	bu	to mark time (military); to make no headway
原声带	yuan	dai	original soundtrack (OST); soundtrack
原始人	yuan	ren	primitive man; prehistoric human
原始林	yuan	lin	old growth forest; primary forest; original forest cover
原始热带雨林	yuan	lin	virgin tropical rainforest
原始码	yuan	ma	source code (computing) (Tw, HK)
原始社会	yuan	hui	primitive society
原子半径	yuan	jing	atomic radius
原子反应堆	yuan	dui	atomic reactor
原子堆	yuan	dui	atomic pile (original form of nuclear reactor)
原子序数	yuan	shu	atomic number
原子弹	yuan	dan	atomic bomb; A-bomb
原子核	yuan	he	atomic nucleus
原子武器	yuan	qi	atomic weapon
原子笔	yuan	bi	(Tw, HK) ballpoint pen
原子能	yuan	neng	atomic energy
原子能发电站	yuan	zhan	atomic power station
原子论	yuan	lun	atomic theory
原子质量	yuan	liang	atomic mass
原子量	yuan	liang	atomic weight; atomic mass
原子钟	yuan	zhong	atomic clock
原封不动	yuan	dong	(lit.) the original seal has not been disturbed (idiom); (fig.) left completely unchanged; untouched; intact
原封未动	yuan	dong	see 原封不動|原封不动[yuan2 feng1 bu4 dong4]
原州区	yuan	qu	Yuanzhou, a district of Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
原平市	yuan	shi	Yuanping, a county-level city in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
原形毕露	yuan	lu	original identity fully revealed (idiom); fig. to unmask and expose the whole truth
原材料	yuan	liao	raw and semifinished materials
原来如此	yuan	ci	(idiom) so that's how it is; I see
原核生物	yuan	wu	prokaryote
原核生物界	yuan	jie	Kingdom Monera; prokaryote
原核细胞	yuan	bao	prokaryote; prokaryotic cell
原汁原味	yuan	wei	original; authentic
原点矩	yuan	ju	(statistics) moment
原爆点	yuan	dian	ground zero
原物料	yuan	liao	raw material
原班人马	yuan	ma	original cast; former team
原生动物	yuan	wu	protozoan (bacteria)
原生家庭	yuan	ting	family of origin
原生橄榄油	yuan	you	virgin olive oil
原生生物	yuan	wu	protist
原生质	yuan	zhi	protoplasm
原电池	yuan	chi	primary cell; non-rechargeable battery
原研药	yuan	yao	(pharmacology) innovator drug; originator drug (as opposed to a generic drug 仿製藥|仿制药[fang3 zhi4 yao4])
原纤维	yuan	wei	(anatomy) fibril
原肾管	yuan	guan	protonephridium (invertebrate anatomy)
原苏联	yuan	lian	former Soviet Union
原被告	yuan	gao	plaintiff and defendant; prosecution and defense (lawyers)
原谅色	yuan	se	(slang) green
原阳县	yuan	xian	Yuanyang, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
厢型车	xiang	che	van (Tw)
厢式车	xiang	che	van
厥功至伟	jue	wei	(idiom) to have made significant contributions to a project or cause
厦门大学	xia	xue	Xiamen University
厦门市	xia	shi	Xiamen, sub-provincial city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
厨师长	chu	zhang	executive chef; head chef
去中心化	qu	hua	decentralization
去你的	qu	de	Get along with you!
去光水	qu	shui	nail polish remover (Tw)
去其糟粕	qu	po	to remove the dross; to discard the dregs
去取之间	qu	jian	undecided between taking and leaving
去台人员	qu	yuan	those who left China for Taiwan before the founding of PRC in 1949
去向不明	qu	ming	missing; lost
去回票	qu	piao	round-trip ticket (Tw)
去垢剂	qu	ji	detergent
去年底	qu	di	late last year; the end of last year
去氧核糖核酸	qu	suan	deoxyribonucleic acid; DNA
去氧麻黄碱	qu	jian	methamphetamine
去污名化	qu	hua	to destigmatize
去甲肾上腺素	qu	su	(biochemistry) norepinephrine; noradrenaline
去皮重	qu	zhong	to tare
去离子水	qu	shui	(chemistry) deionized water
去芜存菁	qu	jing	lit. to get rid of the weeds and keep the flowers; to separate the wheat from the chaff (idiom)
县政府	xian	fu	county administration; county regional government
县级市	xian	shi	county-level city (administrative division in China)
参与者	can	zhe	participant
参加者	can	zhe	participant
参卡尔	can	er	Ivan Cankar (1876-1918), Slovenian modernist writer
参宿七	shen	qi	Rigel (star); lit. seventh star of the Three Stars Chinese constellation
参差不齐	cen	qi	(idiom) variable; uneven; irregular
参差错落	cen	luo	uneven and jumbled (idiom); irregular and disorderly; in a tangled mess
参政权	can	quan	suffrage; voting rights
参照系	can	xi	frame of reference; coordinate frame (math.)
参考书	can	shu	reference book
参考文献	can	xian	cited material; reference (to the literature); bibliography
参考材料	can	liao	reference material; source documents
参考椭球体	can	ti	reference ellipsoid (geodesy)
参考消息	can	xi	Reference News (PRC limited-distribution daily newspaper)
参考系	can	xi	frame of reference
参考资料	can	liao	reference material; bibliography
参议员	can	yuan	senator
参议院	can	yuan	senate; upper chamber (of legislative assembly)
参访团	can	tuan	delegation
参谋总长	can	zhang	army Chief of Staff
参谋长	can	zhang	chief of staff
参赛者	can	zhe	competitor; CL:名[ming2]
参选人	can	ren	election participant; candidate
参选率	can	lv	voter turnout
参量空间	can	jian	moduli space (math.); parameter space
参鸡汤	shen	tang	samgyetang, popular Korean chicken soup with ginseng, spices etc
又一次	you	ci	yet again; once again; once more
又双叒叕	you	zhuo	(Internet slang) time after time; again and again and again
又吵又闹	you	nao	to make a lot of noise; to be disorderly
又好气又好笑	you	xiao	annoyed and amused in equal measure
又来了	you	le	Here we go again.
叉尾太阳鸟	cha	niao	(bird species of China) fork-tailed sunbird (Aethopyga christinae)
叉尾鸥	cha	ou	(bird species of China) Sabine's gull (Xema sabini)
叉烧包	cha	bao	steamed bun filled with Chinese barbecued pork
及时性	ji	xing	timeliness; promptness
及时行乐	ji	le	to enjoy the present (idiom); to live happily with no thought for the future; make merry while you can; carpe diem
及时雨	ji	yu	timely rain; (fig.) timely assistance; timely help
及格线	ji	xian	passing line or score (in an examination)
及物动词	ji	ci	transitive verb
及锋而试	ji	shi	lit. to reach the tip and try (idiom); to have a go when at one's peak
友好区	you	qu	Youhao, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
友谊万岁	you	sui	see 友誼地久天長|友谊地久天长[You3 yi4 di4 jiu3 tian1 chang2]
友谊县	you	xian	Youyi, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
友谊商店	you	dian	Friendship Store, PRC state-run store originally intended for foreigners, diplomats etc, specializing in selling imported Western goods and quality Chinese crafts
友谊地久天长	you	chang	Auld Lang Syne, Scottish song with lyrics by Robert Burns 羅伯特·伯恩斯|罗伯特·伯恩斯[Luo2 bo2 te4 · Bo2 en1 si1], sung to mark the start of a new year or as a farewell; also rendered 友誼萬歲|友谊万岁[You3 yi4 wan4 sui4] or 友誼天長地久|友谊天长地久[You3 yi4 tian1 chang2 di4 jiu3]
友谊天长地久	you	jiu	see 友誼地久天長|友谊地久天长[You3 yi4 di4 jiu3 tian1 chang2]
友谊峰	you	feng	Friendship Peak or Khüiten Peak (4,356 m), the highest peak of the Altai mountains
友谊赛	you	sai	friendly match; friendly competition
友邦保险	you	xian	AIA Group Limited, insurance company
双一流	shuang	liu	Double First-Class University Plan, Chinese government project to develop both a group of Chinese universities and a group of subject disciplines to be world-class by 2050, implemented from 2017
双下巴	shuang	ba	double chin
双主修	shuang	xiu	(education) double major
双人包夹	shuang	jia	(sports) double-teaming
双人床	shuang	chuang	double bed
双人房	shuang	fang	double room
双人滑	shuang	hua	pair skating
双人舞	shuang	wu	dance for two; pas de deux
双人间	shuang	jian	double room (hotel)
双休日	shuang	ri	two-day weekend
双体船	shuang	chuan	catamaran
双倍体	shuang	ti	diploid (doubled chromosomes)
双元音	shuang	yin	diphthong
双光气	shuang	qi	diphosgene
双关语	shuang	yu	pun; play on words; a phrase with a double meaning
双凸面	shuang	mian	convex on both sides (of lens); biconvex
双刃剑	shuang	jian	double-edged sword (lit. and fig.)
双十一	shuang	yi	see 光棍節|光棍节[Guang1 gun4 jie2]
双十节	shuang	jie	Double Tenth, the anniversary of the Wuchang Uprising 武昌起義|武昌起义[Wu3 chang1 Qi3 yi4] of October 10th, 1911; (Tw) National Day
双台子	shuang	zi	see 雙臺子區|双台子区[Shuang1 tai2 zi5 Qu1]
双台子区	shuang	qu	Shuangtaizi, a district of Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
双名法	shuang	fa	binomial nomenclature (taxonomy)
双周期性	shuang	xing	(math.) double periodicity
双唇音	shuang	yin	bilabial consonant (b, p, or m)
双唑泰栓	shuang	shuan	metronidazole, clotrimazole and chlorhexidine acetate (as suppository)
双喜临门	shuang	men	two simultaneous happy events in the family
双城区	shuang	qu	Shuangcheng, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
双城子	shuang	zi	Shuangchengzi, former name of Ussuriisk city in Russian Pacific Primorsky region
双城记	shuang	ji	A Tale of Two Cities by Charles Dickens 查爾斯·狄更斯|查尔斯·狄更斯[Cha2 er3 si1 · Di2 geng1 si1]
双塔区	shuang	qu	Shuangta, a district of Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
双壳类	shuang	lei	(zoology) bivalve
双复磷	shuang	lin	obidoxime chloride; toxogonin
双子叶	shuang	ye	dicotyledon (plant family distinguished by two embryonic leaves, includes daisies, broadleaved trees, herbaceous plants)
双子座	shuang	zuo	Gemini (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
双子星	shuang	xing	(astronomy) binary star; (fig.) two prominent entities regarded as a pair (often complementary or in rivalry)
双孢蘑菇	shuang	gu	cultivated mushroom; champignon (Agaricus bisporus)
双学位	shuang	wei	dual degree (academic)
双宿双飞	shuang	fei	lit. to rest and fly together (idiom); fig. to live in each other's pockets; to be inseparable
双层公共汽车	shuang	che	double-decker bus
双层巴士	shuang	shi	double-decker bus
双层床	shuang	chuang	bunk beds
双峰县	shuang	xian	Shuangfeng, a county in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
双峰镇	shuang	zhen	Twin Peaks, US television drama series 1990-1991
双床房	shuang	fang	twin room
双开门	shuang	men	double door
双引号	shuang	hao	double quotes
双性恋	shuang	lian	bisexual; bisexuality
双截棍	shuang	gun	variant of 雙節棍|双节棍[shuang1 jie2 gun4]
双斑绿柳莺	shuang	ying	(bird species of China) two-barred warbler (Phylloscopus plumbeitarsus)
双方同意	shuang	yi	bilateral agreement
双曲余割	shuang	ge	hyperbolic cosecant, i.e. function cosech(x)
双曲余弦	shuang	xian	hyperbolic cosine or cosh (math.)
双曲几何	shuang	he	hyperbolic geometry
双曲抛物面	shuang	mian	(geometry) hyperbolic paraboloid
双曲拱桥	shuang	qiao	double arched bridge
双曲正弦	shuang	xian	hyperbolic sine or sinh (math.)
双曲线	shuang	xian	hyperbola
双曲面	shuang	mian	(math.) hyperboloid
双月刊	shuang	kan	bimonthly publication
双柏县	shuang	xian	Shuangbai, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
双栖双宿	shuang	su	see 雙宿雙飛|双宿双飞[shuang1 su4 shuang1 fei1]
双桥区	shuang	qu	Shuangqiao, a district of Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
双氢睾酮	shuang	tong	dihydrotestosterone
双氧水	shuang	shui	hydrogen peroxide (H2O2) solution
双氯灭痛	shuang	tong	diclofenac painkiller; also called 扶他林
双氯芬酸钠	shuang	na	diclofenac sodium, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller; also called voltaren 扶他林
双氯醇胺	shuang	an	clenbuterol
双江县	shuang	xian	see 雙江拉祜族佤族布朗族傣族自治縣|双江拉祜族佤族布朗族傣族自治县[Shuang1 jiang1 La1 hu4 zu2 Wa3 zu2 Bu4 lang3 zu2 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
双流区	shuang	qu	Shuangliu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
双清区	shuang	qu	Shuangqing, a district of Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
双湖县	shuang	xian	Shuanghu, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
双滦区	shuang	qu	Shuangluan, a district of Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
双牌县	shuang	xian	Shuangpai, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
双独夫妇	shuang	fu	a married couple allowed dispensation to have second child
双球菌	shuang	jun	diplococcus
双生兄弟	shuang	di	twin brothers
双百方针	shuang	zhen	refers to 百花運動|百花运动[Bai3 hua1 Yun4 dong4] with its slogan 百花齊放，百家爭鳴|百花齐放，百家争鸣
双相障碍	shuang	ai	bipolar disorder
双眼皮	shuang	pi	double eyelid
双眼视觉	shuang	jue	binocular vision
双瞳剪水	shuang	shui	(idiom) clear, bright eyes
双瞳翦水	shuang	shui	variant of 雙瞳剪水|双瞳剪水[shuang1 tong2 jian3 shui3]
双立人	shuang	ren	J. A. Henckels (brand)
双筒望远镜	shuang	jing	binoculars
双管齐下	shuang	xia	lit. to paint holding two brushes (idiom); fig. to work on two tasks at the same time; to attack one problem from two angles at the same time
双簧管	shuang	guan	double reed wind instrument (such as oboe or bassoon)
双绞线	shuang	xian	twisted pair (cabling)
双翅目	shuang	mu	Diptera (insect order including flies)
双翼飞机	shuang	ji	biplane
双职工	shuang	gong	working couple (husband and wife both employed)
双肩包	shuang	bao	backpack
双胞胎	shuang	tai	twin; CL:對|对[dui4]
双脚架	shuang	jia	bipod (supporting a machine gun etc)
双臂抱胸	shuang	xiong	with arms crossed
双节棍	shuang	gun	nunchaku
双节棍道	shuang	dao	nunchaku martial arts
双蕊兰	shuang	lan	double-stamen orchid (Diplandrorchis sinica S.C. Chen), an endangered species
双角犀	shuang	xi	two-horned rhinoceros; Dicerorhinini
双角犀鸟	shuang	niao	(bird species of China) great hornbill (Buceros bicornis)
双辫八色鸫	shuang	dong	(bird species of China) eared pitta (Hydrornis phayrei)
双边贸易	shuang	yi	bilateral trade
双辽市	shuang	shi	Shuangliao, a county-level city in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
双进双出	shuang	chu	to be together constantly (idiom)
双连接站	shuang	zhan	dual attachment station
双重国籍	shuang	ji	dual citizenship
双重标准	shuang	zhun	double standard
双链核酸	shuang	suan	double-stranded nucleic acid
双阳区	shuang	qu	Shuangyang, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
双陆棋	shuang	qi	backgammon
双面人	shuang	ren	two-faced person
双面胶	shuang	jiao	double-sided tape
双音节	shuang	jie	bisyllable
双马尾	shuang	wei	(hairstyle) unplaited pigtails; twin ponytails; bunches
双髻鲨	shuang	sha	hammerhead shark
双鱼座	shuang	zuo	Pisces (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
双鸭山	shuang	shan	see 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4]
双鸭山市	shuang	shi	Shuangyashan, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
双黄蛋	shuang	dan	double-yolk egg
双龙大裂谷	shuang	gu	Shuanglong Rift Valley in Mt Xiong'er National Geological Park 熊耳山[Xiong2 er3 Shan1], Zaozhuang 棗莊|枣庄[Zao3 zhuang1], Shandong
反义字	fan	zi	character with opposite meaning; antonym; opposite characters
反义词	fan	ci	antonym
反之亦然	fan	ran	vice versa
反乌托邦	fan	bang	dystopia
反人类	fan	lei	inhuman
反人类罪	fan	zui	crimes against humanity
反人道罪	fan	zui	a crime against humanity
反人道罪行	fan	xing	crime against humanity
反传算法	fan	fa	back propagation algorithm
反作用	fan	yong	(physics) reaction; (fig.) backlash; unintended consequence
反作用力	fan	li	(physics) reaction force
反倾销	fan	xiao	anti-dumping
反光镜	fan	jing	reflector (typically concave, as in a torch); mirror (typically plane or convex)
反光面	fan	mian	reflecting surface
反兴奋剂	fan	ji	(sports) anti-doping
反其道而行之	fan	zhi	to do the very opposite; to act in a diametrically opposite way
反冲力	fan	li	backlash; recoil; reactive force
反函数	fan	shu	inverse function (math.)
反分裂法	fan	fa	anti-secession law of 2005 (whereby PRC claims the right to invade Taiwan)
反刍动物	fan	wu	ruminant
反动分子	fan	zi	reactionaries; reactionary elements
反动势力	fan	li	reactionary forces (esp. in Marxist rhetoric)
反动派	fan	pai	reactionaries
反反复复	fan	fu	repeatedly; time and time again
反叛分子	fan	zi	rebel; insurgent
反右派斗争	fan	zheng	Anti-Rightist Movement, Mao's purge of "rightists" after the Hundred Flowers Campaign ended in 1957
反右运动	fan	dong	Anti-Rightist Movement, Mao's purge of "rightists" after the Hundred Flowers Campaign ended in 1957
反咬一口	fan	kou	to make a false countercharge
反唇相讥	fan	ji	(idiom) to answer back sarcastically; to retort
反嘴鹬	fan	yu	(bird species of China) pied avocet (Recurvirostra avosetta)
反围剿	fan	jiao	communist attack against the Guomindang's encircle and annihilate campaign
反圣婴	fan	ying	La Niña (counterpart of El Niño in meteorology)
反坦克	fan	ke	anti-tank
反垄断	fan	duan	to break up or prevent monopolies; anti-monopoly; antitrust
反垄断法	fan	fa	antitrust legislation
反基督	fan	du	the anti-Christ
反复无常	fan	chang	unstable; erratic; changeable
反季节	fan	jie	off-season; out-of-season
反安慰剂	fan	ji	nocebo
反客为主	fan	zhu	lit. the guest acts as host (idiom); fig. to turn from passive to active behavior
反密码子	fan	zi	(biochemistry) anticodon
反对党	fan	dang	opposition (political) party
反对派	fan	pai	opposition faction
反对票	fan	piao	dissenting vote
反导导弹	fan	dan	anti-missile missile (such as the Patriot Missile)
反导弹	fan	dan	anti-missile
反导系统	fan	tong	anti-missile system; missile defense system
反射作用	fan	yong	reflex; reflection
反射光	fan	guang	to reflect light; reflection; reflected light
反射动作	fan	zuo	reflex action
反射区治疗	fan	liao	reflexology (alternative medicine)
反射弧	fan	hu	reflex arc
反射星云	fan	yun	reflection nebula
反射望远镜	fan	jing	reflecting telescope
反射疗法	fan	fa	reflexology (alternative medicine)
反射镜	fan	jing	reflector
反射面	fan	mian	reflecting surface
反应堆	fan	dui	reactor
反应堆芯	fan	xin	reactor core
反应式	fan	shi	equation of a chemical reaction
反应时	fan	shi	response time
反应时间	fan	jian	(technology) response time
反应炉	fan	lu	(nuclear etc) reactor
反应锅	fan	guo	(chemical engineering) reaction vessel; reaction tank
反式脂肪	fan	fang	trans fat; trans-isomer fatty acid
反式脂肪酸	fan	suan	see 反式脂肪[fan3 shi4 zhi1 fang2]
反弹导弹	fan	dan	antimissile missile
反录病毒	fan	du	reverse transcription virus; retrovirus
反恐战争	fan	zheng	war on terrorism
反托拉斯	fan	si	antitrust (loanword)
反批评	fan	ping	countercriticism
反抗者	fan	zhe	rebel
反政府	fan	fu	anti-government (protest)
反散射	fan	she	backscatter
反文旁	fan	pang	(colloquial) grapheme 攵 (variant form of Kangxi radical 66, 攴)
反斜杠	fan	gang	backslash (computing)
反斜线	fan	xian	backslash (computing); reversed diagonal
反时势	fan	shi	unconventional
反时针	fan	zhen	counterclockwise
反映论	fan	lun	theory of reflection (in dialectic materialism), i.e. every perception reflects physical reality
反智主义	fan	yi	anti-intellectualism
反智论	fan	lun	anti-intellectualism
反曲弓	fan	gong	(archery) recurve bow
反杜林论	fan	lun	Anti-Dühring, book by Friedrich Engels 恩格斯[En1 ge2 si1]
反正一样	fan	yang	whether it's right or wrong doesn't make a lot of difference; six of one and half a dozen of the other; as broad as it is long
反气旋	fan	xuan	anticyclone
反求诸己	fan	ji	to seek the cause in oneself rather than sb else
反渗透	fan	tou	anti-infiltration (measures taken against subversive external forces); (chemistry) reverse osmosis
反渗透法	fan	fa	(Tw) Anti-infiltration Act (2020), which regulates the influence of entities deemed foreign hostile forces
反照率	fan	lv	reflectivity; albedo
反物质	fan	zhi	antimatter
反犹太主义	fan	yi	antisemitism
反璞归真	fan	zhen	variant of 返璞歸真|返璞归真[fan3 pu2 gui1 zhen1]
反生物战	fan	zhan	biological (warfare) defense
反用换流器	fan	qi	inverter, device that converts AC electricity to DC and vice versa
反电子	fan	zi	positron; also called 正電子|正电子[zheng4 dian4 zi3]
反目成仇	fan	chou	(idiom) to fall out with sb; to become enemies
反相器	fan	qi	(electronics) inverter; NOT gate
反知识	fan	shi	anti-intellectual
反社会	fan	hui	antisocial (behavior)
反社会行为	fan	wei	antisocial behavior
反科学	fan	xue	anti-science; anti-scientific
反空降	fan	jiang	anti-aircraft defense
反粒子	fan	zi	antiparticle (physics)
反脸无情	fan	qing	to turn one's face against sb and show no mercy (idiom); to turn against a friend
反腐倡廉	fan	lian	to fight corruption and advocate probity
反腐败	fan	bai	to oppose corruption; anti-graft (measures, policy etc)
反舰导弹	fan	dan	anti-ship missile
反舰艇	fan	ting	anti-ship
反英雄	fan	xiong	antihero
反袁斗争	fan	zheng	war of 1915 against Yuan Shikai and for the Republic
反袁运动	fan	dong	anti-Yuan movement, opposing Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] in National Protection War 護國戰爭|护国战争[Hu4 guo2 Zhan4 zheng1] 1915-1916; same as 反袁鬥爭|反袁斗争[fan3 Yuan2 dou4 zheng1]
反裘负刍	fan	chu	lit. to wear one's coat inside out and carry firewood on one's back (idiom); fig. to live a life of poverty and hard work; fig. to act stupidly
反证法	fan	fa	reductio ad absurdum
反诉状	fan	zhuang	counterclaim
反诘问	fan	wen	to cross-examine
反败为胜	fan	sheng	to turn defeat into victory (idiom); to turn the tide
反贪污	fan	wu	anticorruption
反贪腐	fan	fu	anti-corruption
反赤道流	fan	liu	equatorial counter current
反走私	fan	si	to oppose smuggling; anti-contraband (measures, policy etc)
反身代词	fan	ci	reflexive pronoun
反躬自问	fan	wen	introspection; to ask oneself
反转录	fan	lu	(molecular biology) reverse transcription
反转录病毒	fan	du	retrovirus
反过来	fan	lai	conversely; in reverse order; in an opposite direction
反过来说	fan	shuo	on the other hand
反酷刑折磨公约	fan	yue	UN convention against torture and cruel treatment (ratified by PRC in 1988)
反锯齿	fan	chi	anti-aliasing
反问句	fan	ju	rhetorical question
反问语气	fan	qi	tone of one's voice when asking a rhetorical question
反间计	fan	ji	stratagem of sowing dissension; CL:條|条[tiao2]
反间谍	fan	die	counterintelligence; protection against espionage
反面人物	fan	wu	negative character; bad guy (in a story)
反面儿	fan	r	erhua variant of 反面[fan3 mian4]
反面教员	fan	yuan	(PRC) teacher by negative example; sb from whom one can learn what not to do
反面教材	fan	cai	negative example; sth that teaches one what not to do
反革命	fan	ming	counterrevolutionary
反革命宣传煽动罪	fan	zui	the crime of instigating counterrevolutionary propaganda
反高潮	fan	chao	anticlimax
发人深思	fa	si	(idiom) thought-provoking; to give one food for thought
发人深省	fa	xing	to provide food for thought (idiom); thought-provoking
发人深醒	fa	xing	variant of 發人深省|发人深省[fa1 ren2 shen1 xing3]
发令枪	fa	qiang	starting pistol
发件人	fa	ren	(mail or email) sender
发作性嗜睡病	fa	bing	narcolepsy
发光二极体	fa	ti	(Tw) light-emitting diode (LED)
发光二极管	fa	guan	light-emitting diode (LED)
发光强度	fa	du	luminous intensity
发冠卷尾	fa	wei	(bird species of China) hair-crested drongo (Dicrurus hottentottus)
发出指示	fa	shi	to issue instructions
发刊词	fa	ci	foreword; preface (to a publication)
发动力	fa	li	motive power
发动机	fa	ji	engine; motor; CL:臺|台[tai2]
发号施令	fa	ling	to boss people around (idiom)
发喉急	fa	ji	to get in a rage
发嘘声	fa	sheng	to hiss (as a sign of displeasure)
发国难财	fa	cai	to profiteer in a time of national calamity
发型师	fa	shi	hair stylist
发型设计师	fa	shi	hairstylist
发声器	fa	qi	sound device
发声器官	fa	guan	vocal organs; vocal cords
发声法	fa	fa	intonation
发奋图强	fa	qiang	to make an effort to become strong (idiom); determined to do better; to pull one's socks up
发奋有为	fa	wei	to prove one's worth through firm resolve (idiom)
发好人卡	fa	ka	(slang) to reject sb (by labeling them a "nice guy")
发射井	fa	jing	launching silo
发射台	fa	tai	launchpad; (radio, TV) transmitter
发射器	fa	qi	radio transmitter
发射场	fa	chang	launch site
发射星云	fa	yun	emission nebula
发射机	fa	ji	transmitter
发射机应答器	fa	qi	transponder; electronic device that responds to a radio code
发射站	fa	zhan	launch pad (for rocket or projectile)
发小儿	fa	r	erhua variant of 髮小|发小[fa4 xiao3]
发展中	fa	zhong	developing; under development; in the pipeline
发展中国家	fa	jia	developing country
发展商	fa	shang	(HK) (real estate etc) developer
发展研究中心	fa	xin	Development Research Center (PRC State Council institution)
发工资日	fa	ri	payday
发布会	fa	hui	press conference; news conference; product launch event
发情期	fa	qi	the breeding season (zool.); oestrus (period of sexual receptivity of female mammals)
发愤图强	fa	qiang	to be strongly determined to succeed (idiom)
发愤忘食	fa	shi	so dedicated as to forget one's meals (idiom)
发扬光大	fa	da	to develop and promote; to carry forward; to bring to great height of development
发扬踔厉	fa	li	to be full of vigor (idiom)
发扬蹈厉	fa	li	see 發揚踔厲|发扬踔厉[fa1 yang2 chuo1 li4]
发报人	fa	ren	sender (of a message)
发指眦裂	fa	lie	hair standing up and eyes wide in anger (idiom); enraged; in a towering rage
发改委	fa	wei	abbr. for 國家發展和改革委員會|国家发展和改革委员会, PRC National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), formed in 2003
发明人	fa	ren	inventor
发明创造	fa	zao	to invent and innovate; inventions and innovations
发明家	fa	jia	inventor
发明者	fa	zhe	inventor
发横财	fa	cai	to make easy money; to make a fortune; to line one's pockets
发泡剂	fa	ji	foaming agent; blowing agent
发泡胶	fa	jiao	expanded polystyrene (EPS); styrofoam
发源地	fa	di	place of origin; birthplace; source
发烟弹	fa	dan	smoke bomb; smoke grenade
发烧友	fa	you	fan; zealot
发牢骚	fa	sao	to whine; to be grouchy
发现号	fa	hao	Space Shuttle Discovery
发现物	fa	wu	a find
发球区	fa	qu	teeing ground (golf)
发生关系	fa	xi	to have sex with sb
发生率	fa	lv	rate of occurrence
发电厂	fa	chang	power plant
发电机	fa	ji	electricity generator; dynamo
发电站	fa	zhan	power station
发电量	fa	liang	(power station, solar panel etc) output; capacity
发病率	fa	lv	incidence of a disease; disease rate
发短信	fa	xin	to send a text message
发神经	fa	jing	(coll.) to go crazy; to lose it; demented
发祥地	fa	di	the birthplace (of sth good); the cradle (e.g. of art)
发聋振聩	fa	kui	lit. so loud that even the deaf can hear (idiom); rousing even the apathetic
发育期	fa	qi	puberty; period of development
发育生物学	fa	xue	developmental biology
发脱口齿	fa	chi	diction; enunciation
发脾气	fa	qi	to lose one's temper; to fly into a rage; to throw a tantrum
发薪日	fa	ri	payday
发行人	fa	ren	publisher; issuer
发行商	fa	shang	publisher; distributor; issuer
发行备忘录	fa	lu	offering memorandum (for public stock issue); publication memorandum
发行额	fa	e	(periodical) circulation
发表会	fa	hui	press conference; unveiling ceremony; (product) launch
发表演讲	fa	jiang	to give a speech
发言人	fa	ren	spokesperson
发言权	fa	quan	the right to speak; the right to express one's views
发语词	fa	ci	introductory particle (used at the beginning of a sentence or passage in Classical Chinese)
发语辞	fa	ci	variant of 發語詞|发语词[fa1 yu3 ci2]
发财树	fa	shu	money tree (Pachira aquatica)
发财致富	fa	fu	to become rich; enrichment
发财车	fa	che	(Tw) mini truck; Kei truck
发起人	fa	ren	proposer; initiator; founding member
发达国	fa	guo	developed nation
发达国家	fa	jia	developed nation
发达地区	fa	qu	developed area
发送器	fa	qi	transmitter
发酒疯	fa	feng	to get wildly drunk
发际线	fa	xian	(one's) hairline
发音体	fa	ti	sound producing object (soundboard, vibrating string, membrane etc)
发音器官	fa	guan	vocal organs; vocal cords
叔丈人	shu	ren	wife's uncle
叔丈母	shu	mu	wife's aunt
叔本华	shu	hua	Arthur Schopenhauer (1788-1860), German post-Kantian philosopher
叔祖母	shu	mu	wife of paternal grandfather's younger brother
取之不尽用之不竭	qu	jie	limitless supply (of); inexhaustible
取代基	qu	ji	(chemistry) substituent
取保候审	qu	shen	release from custody, subject to provision of a surety, pending investigation (PRC)
取保释放	qu	fang	to be released on bail (law)
取其精华	qu	hua	to take the best; to absorb the essence
取其精华去其糟粕	qu	po	take the cream, discard the dross (political and educational slogan); keep what is good, discard the rest; You need to be selective when studying.
取决于	qu	yu	to hinge on; to be decided by; to depend on
取得一致	qu	zhi	to reach a consensus
取得胜利	qu	li	to prevail; to achieve victory; to be victorious
取景器	qu	qi	viewfinder (of a camera etc)
取景框	qu	kuang	rectangular frame used to view a scene (made out of cardboard etc, or formed by the thumbs and forefingers); viewfinder; viewing frame
取款机	qu	ji	ATM
取消关注	qu	zhu	to unfollow
取灯儿	qu	r	(dialect) match (for lighting fire)
取而代之	qu	zhi	(idiom) to replace; to supersede; to take its (or her etc) place
取长补短	qu	duan	lit. use others' strengths to make up for one's weak points (idiom from Mencius); to use this in place of that; what you lose on the swings, you win on the roundabouts
受不了	shou	liao	unbearable; unable to endure; can't stand
受体拮抗剂	shou	ji	receptor antagonist
受保人	shou	ren	the insured person; the person covered by an insurance policy
受冻挨饿	shou	e	see 挨餓受凍|挨饿受冻[ai2 e4 shou4 dong4]
受刑人	shou	ren	person being executed; victim of corporal punishment; person serving a sentence
受命于天	shou	tian	to be emperor by the grace of heaven; to have the mandate of heaven
受夹板气	shou	qi	to be attacked by both sides in a quarrel; to be caught in the crossfire
受宠若惊	shou	jing	overwhelmed by favor from superior (humble expr.)
受害人	shou	ren	victim
受害者	shou	zhe	casualty; victim; those injured and wounded
受得了	shou	liao	to put up with; to endure
受托人	shou	ren	(law) trustee
受托者	shou	zhe	trustee
受支配	shou	pei	subject to (foreign domination, emotions etc)
受欢迎	shou	ying	to be popular; to be well-liked; to be warmly received
受气包	shou	bao	(fig.) punching bag
受法律保护权	shou	quan	right to protection by law (law)
受洗命名	shou	ming	to be christened
受电弓	shou	gong	pantograph (transportation)
受益人	shou	ren	beneficiary
受益匪浅	shou	qian	to benefit (from)
受精卵	shou	luan	fertilized ovum
受精囊	shou	nang	seminal receptacle
受约束	shou	shu	restricted; constrained
受聘于	shou	yu	to be employed at
受虐狂	shou	kuang	masochism; masochist
受访者	shou	zhe	participant in a survey; interviewee; respondent
受试者	shou	zhe	subject (in an experiment); participant (in a clinical trial etc)
受追捧	shou	peng	to be eagerly sought after
受降仪式	shou	shi	a surrender ceremony
受难日	shou	ri	Good Friday
受难纪念	shou	nian	memorial
受难者	shou	zhe	sufferer; a victim of a calamity; a person in distress
变分原理	bian	li	variational principle (physics)
变分学	bian	xue	calculus of variations (math.)
变分法	bian	fa	calculus of variations
变化多端	bian	duan	changeable; changing; varied
变化无常	bian	chang	(idiom) changeable; fickle
变化球	bian	qiu	(baseball) breaking ball; (fig.) curveball; unexpected turn of events
变化莫测	bian	ce	unpredictable; changeable
变化音	bian	yin	(music) accidental (a note foreign to the key signature)
变压器	bian	qi	transformer
变声器	bian	qi	voice changer (device or software)
变奏曲	bian	qu	variation (music)
变幻莫测	bian	ce	to change unpredictably; unpredictable; erratic
变异株	bian	zhu	variant; variant strain (of virus)
变形虫	bian	chong	amoeba; (fig.) sb or sth that is highly adaptable or changeable
变形金刚	bian	gang	Transformers (franchise)
变徵之声	bian	sheng	modified fifth note of the pentatonic scale
变态反应	bian	ying	allergic response; allergy
变态辣	bian	la	(coll.) insanely spicy (the highest level of spiciness on a menu)
变性土	bian	tu	vertisol (soil taxonomy)
变戏法	bian	fa	to perform conjuring tricks; to conjure; to juggle
变把戏	bian	xi	to perform magic; to do magic tricks; prestidigitation
变换群	bian	qun	(math.) transformation group
变本加厉	bian	li	lit. change to more severe (idiom); to become more intense (esp. of shortcoming); to aggravate; to intensify
变样儿	bian	r	erhua variant of 變樣|变样[bian4 yang4]
变法儿	bian	r	to try by all available methods
变流器	bian	qi	converter
变温动物	bian	wu	poikilotherm (cold-blooded animal)
变温层	bian	ceng	thermocline; troposphere (nonstandard synonym of 對流層|对流层[dui4 liu2 ceng2])
变焦环	bian	huan	(photography) zoom ring
变现能力	bian	li	liquidity; marketability
变生肘腋	bian	ye	lit. calamity in one's armpit (idiom); a major coup happening on one's doorstep; trouble or danger in one's own backyard
变电站	bian	zhan	(transformer) substation
变矩器	bian	qi	(automobile) torque converter
变色易容	bian	rong	to change color and alter one's expression (idiom); to go white with fear; out of one's wits
变色龙	bian	long	(lit. and fig.) chameleon
变装皇后	bian	hou	drag queen
变装秀	bian	xiu	drag show; cross-dressing show
变装者	bian	zhe	cross-dresser
变调夹	bian	jia	(music) capo
变质作用	bian	yong	metamorphism (geology)
变质岩	bian	yan	metamorphic rock (geology)
变速传动	bian	dong	to change gear
变速器	bian	qi	gearbox; speed changer; gear
变速杆	bian	gan	gear lever; stick shift
变速箱	bian	xiang	gearbox; transmission
变造币	bian	bi	illegally modified or altered currency
变阻器	bian	qi	(electronics) variable resistor; rheostat
变革管理	bian	li	change management (business)
变音记号	bian	hao	(music) accidental (symbol such as ♯, ♭ or ♮ modifying pitch)
变魔术	bian	shu	to perform magical tricks
叙事线	xu	xian	narrative thread; storyline
叙事诗	xu	shi	narrative poem
叙利亚	xu	ya	Syria
叙利亚文	xu	wen	Syriac language (from c. 2nd century BC); the Syriac script
叙州区	xu	qu	Xuzhou, a district of Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
叙拉古	xu	gu	Syracuse, Sicily; also written 錫拉庫薩|锡拉库萨[Xi1 la1 ku4 sa4]
叙永县	xu	xian	Xuyong, a county in Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
叙述性	xu	xing	narrative
叛乱罪	pan	zui	the crime of armed rebellion
叛国罪	pan	zui	the crime of treason
叛逆者	pan	zhe	traitor
叠层岩	die	yan	stromatolite
叠层石	die	shi	stromatolite
叠彩区	die	qu	Diecai, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
叠罗汉	die	han	human pyramid
叠音钹	die	bo	ride cymbal (drum kit component)
口不应心	kou	xin	to say one thing but mean another; to dissimulate
口不择言	kou	yan	to speak incoherently; to ramble; to talk irresponsibly
口出狂言	kou	yan	to speak conceited nonsense; to come out with arrogant claptrap
口口声声	kou	sheng	to keep on saying (idiom); to repeat over and over again
口吸盘	kou	pan	oral sucker (e.g. on bloodsucking parasite)
口嚼酒	kou	jiu	alcoholic drink made by fermenting chewed rice
口头禅	kou	chan	Zen saying repeated as cant; (fig.) catchphrase; mantra; favorite expression; stock phrase
口头语	kou	yu	pet phrase; regularly used expression; manner of speaking
口嫌体正直	kou	zhi	your lips say one thing, but your body language reveals what you really think (borrowed from Japanese)
口嫌体直	kou	zhi	your lips say one thing, but your body language reveals what you really think (four-character version of 口嫌體正直|口嫌体正直[kou3 xian2 ti3 zheng4 zhi2])
口干舌燥	kou	zao	lit. dry mouth and tongue (idiom); to talk too much
口快心直	kou	zhi	see 心直口快[xin1 zhi2 kou3 kuai4]
口无择言	kou	yan	to say not a word that is not appropriate (idiom); wrongly used for 口不擇言|口不择言[kou3 bu4 ze2 yan2]
口无遮拦	kou	lan	to blab; to shoot one's mouth off; to commit a gaffe
口是心非	kou	fei	duplicity; hypocrisy (idiom)
口服心服	kou	fu	see 心服口服[xin1 fu2 kou3 fu2]
口服液	kou	ye	(pharmacology) oral liquid
口服补液盐	kou	yan	oral rehydration salts (ORS)
口欲期	kou	qi	oral stage (psychology)
口水仗	kou	zhang	dispute; spat; shouting match
口水佬	kou	lao	talkative person (Cantonese)
口水战	kou	zhan	war of words
口水歌	kou	ge	bubblegum pop song; cover song
口水鸡	kou	ji	steamed chicken with chili sauce
口沫横飞	kou	fei	to speak vehemently; to express oneself with great passion
口眼歪斜	kou	xie	facial nerve paralysis
口碑流传	kou	chuan	widely praised (idiom); with an extensive public reputation
口碑载道	kou	dao	lit. praise fills the roads (idiom); praise everywhere; universal approbation
口簧琴	kou	qin	Jew's harp
口红胶	kou	jiao	(Tw) glue stick
口腔溃疡	kou	yang	canker sore
口腔炎	kou	yan	stomatitis; ulceration of oral cavity; inflammation of the mucous lining of the mouth
口腹之欲	kou	yu	desire for good food
口若悬河	kou	he	mouth like a torrent (idiom); eloquent; glib
口蜜腹剑	kou	jian	lit. honeyed words, a sword in the belly (idiom); fig. hypocritical and murderous
口袋妖怪	kou	guai	Pokémon (Japanese media franchise)
口袋罪	kou	zui	vaguely defined offense that can be broadly interpreted and potentially abused by law enforcement
口袋饼	kou	bing	pita bread
口角战	kou	zhan	war of words
口译员	kou	yuan	interpreter; oral translator
口诛笔伐	kou	fa	to condemn in speech and in writing (idiom); to denounce by word and pen
口语沟通	kou	tong	oral communication (psychology)
口说无凭	kou	ping	(idiom) you can't rely on a verbal agreement; just because sb says sth, doesn't mean it's true
口足目	kou	mu	Stomatopoda, order of marine crustaceans (whose members are called mantis shrimps)
口蹄疫	kou	yi	foot-and-mouth disease (FMD); aphthous fever
口风琴	kou	qin	melodica
口香糖	kou	tang	chewing gum
口齿不清	kou	qing	to lisp; unclear articulation; inarticulate
口齿伶俐	kou	li	eloquent and fluent speaker (idiom); grandiloquence; the gift of the gab
口齿清楚	kou	chu	clear diction; clear articulation
口齿生香	kou	xiang	eloquence that generates perfume (idiom); profound and significant text
古丈县	gu	xian	Guzhang, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
古井无波	gu	bo	(idiom) calm and collected; unaffected by external influences
古交市	gu	shi	Gujiao, a county-level city in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
古人类	gu	lei	ancient human species such as Homo erectus and Homo neanderthalensis
古人类学	gu	xue	paleoanthropology
古今中外	gu	wai	at all times and in all places (idiom)
古今小说	gu	shuo	Stories Old and New by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2], collection of late Ming baihua 白話|白话[bai2 hua4] tales published in 1620
古今韵会举要	gu	yao	"Summary of the Collection of Rhymes Old and New", supplemented and annotated Yuan dynasty version of the no-longer-extant late Song or early Yuan "Collection of Rhymes Old and New" 古今韻會|古今韵会
古代史	gu	shi	ancient history
古体诗	gu	shi	a pre-Tang Dynasty genre of poetry, relatively free in form, usually having four, five, six or seven characters per line
古兰经	gu	jing	the Koran
古典乐	gu	yue	classical music (mainly Western)
古典文学	gu	xue	classical literature
古典派	gu	pai	classicists
古典语言	gu	yan	classical language
古典音乐	gu	yue	classical music
古冶区	gu	qu	Guye, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
古北界	gu	jie	Palearctic realm
古吉拉特	gu	te	Gujarat, state in west India
古吉拉特邦	gu	bang	Gujarat, state in west India
古地磁	gu	ci	paleomagnetism
古城区	gu	qu	Gucheng, a district of Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
古塔区	gu	qu	Guta, a district of Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
古墓丽影	gu	ying	Tomb Raider (computer game)
古墓葬群	gu	qun	(archeology) burial complex
古尔班通古特沙漠	gu	mo	Gurbantunggut Desert, northern Xinjiang
古尔邦节	gu	jie	(Islam) Eid al-Adha, the Festival of Sacrifice (Qurban), celebrated on the 10th day of Dhu al-Hijjah, the 12th month of the Islamic calendar
古巴比伦	gu	lun	ancient Babylon
古希腊	gu	la	ancient Greece
古希腊语	gu	yu	Ancient Greek (language)
古往今来	gu	lai	since ancient times; since times immemorial
古惑仔	gu	zai	gangster; hooligan; problem youth
古拉格	gu	ge	gulag (loanword)
古文字学	gu	xue	paleography
古文明	gu	ming	ancient civilization
古文观止	gu	zhi	Guwen Guanzhi, an anthology of essays written in Literary Chinese, compiled and edited by Wu Chucai and Wu Diaohou of Qing dynasty
古文运动	gu	dong	cultural movement aspiring to study and emulate classic works, at different periods of history, esp. Tang and Song
古新世	gu	shi	Palaeocene (geological epoch from 65m-55m years ago)
古新统	gu	tong	Palaeocene system (geology)
古早味	gu	wei	(Tw) traditional style; old-fashioned feel; flavor of yesteryear
古时候	gu	hou	in ancient times; in olden days
古杰拉尔	gu	er	(name) Gujral; Inder Kumar Gujral (1919–2012), Indian politician, prime minister 1997–1998
古杰拉特邦	gu	bang	Gujarat, Indian state
古柯树	gu	shu	coca plant (source of cocaine)
古柯碱	gu	jian	(loanword) cocaine
古根海姆	gu	mu	Guggenheim (name)
古气候学	gu	xue	paleoclimatology
古浪县	gu	xian	Gulang, a county in Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
古灵精怪	gu	guai	(idiom) mischievously clever; whimsically quirky
古特雷斯	gu	si	António Guterres (1949-), secretary-general of the United Nations (2017-), prime minister of Portugal (1995-2002)
古玩店	gu	dian	antique store
古生代	gu	dai	Paleozoic, geological era 545-250m years ago, covering Cambrian 寒武紀|寒武纪, Ordovician 奧陶紀|奥陶纪, Silurian 志留紀|志留纪, Devonian 泥盆紀|泥盆纪, Carboniferous 石炭紀|石炭纪, Permian 二疊紀|二叠纪
古生物	gu	wu	organism from the geological past
古生物学	gu	xue	palaeontology
古生物学家	gu	jia	paleontologist; paleobiologist
古田县	gu	xian	Gutian, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
古登堡	gu	bao	(name) Gutenberg; Johannes Gutenberg (c. 1400–1468), inventor in Europe of the printing press; Beno Gutenberg (1889–1960), German-born US seismologist, coinventor of the Richter magnitude scale
古盗鸟	gu	niao	Archaeoraptor (bird-like dinosaur)
古纤道	gu	dao	Old Towpath along the Grand Canal in Zhejiang Province
古罗马	gu	ma	ancient Rome
古老肉	gu	rou	sweet and sour pork; also written 咕嚕肉|咕噜肉[gu1 lu1 rou4]
古脊椎动物学	gu	xue	vertebrate paleontology
古腾堡计划	gu	hua	Project Gutenberg
古色古香	gu	xiang	interesting and appealing (of old locations, objects etc)
古董滩	gu	tan	Gudong desert or Antiques desert at Han dynasty Yangguan pass 陽關|阳关[Yang2 guan1], named after many Han dynasty archaeological discoveries
古蔺县	gu	xian	Gulin, a county in Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
古装剧	gu	ju	costume drama
古里古怪	gu	guai	quaint; odd and picturesque; weird and wonderful
古铜色	gu	se	bronze color
古铜色卷尾	gu	wei	(bird species of China) bronzed drongo (Dicrurus aeneus)
古雅典	gu	dian	ancient Athens
古鲁鲁	gu	lu	(onom.) the sound of a rolling object
古龙水	gu	shui	(loanword) cologne
句容市	ju	shi	Jurong, a county-level city in Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
句法分析	ju	xi	syntactic analysis
句骊河	ju	he	pre-Han name of Liao River 遼河|辽河[Liao2 He2]
另一半	ling	ban	other half; (fig.) spouse; one's better half
另一方面	ling	mian	on the other hand; another aspect
另存为	ling	wei	Save As ... (menu option in a software application)
另当别论	ling	lun	to treat differently; another cup of tea
另有企图	ling	tu	(idiom) to have an ulterior motive
另眼相看	ling	kan	to treat sb favorably; to view in a new light
另类医疗	ling	liao	alternative medicine
另行通知	ling	zhi	to notify at a different time; to notify later; to give prior notice
另觅新欢	ling	huan	to seek happiness elsewhere (euphemism for extramarital sex); a bit on the side
另请高明	ling	ming	please find sb better qualified than me (idiom)
另谋高就	ling	jiu	to get a better job somewhere else (idiom); to seek alternative employment
另起炉灶	ling	zao	lit. to set up a separate kitchen (idiom); to start from scratch; back to square one; to start of on a new path
另辟蹊径	ling	jing	to take an alternate route (idiom); to find an alternative; to take a different approach
只不过	zhi	guo	only; merely; nothing but; no more than; it's just that ...
只争旦夕	zhi	xi	see 只爭朝夕|只争朝夕[zhi3 zheng1 zhao1 xi1]
只争朝夕	zhi	xi	(idiom) to seize every minute; to make the best use of one's time
只可意会不可言传	zhi	chuan	can be understood, but not described (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); mysterious and subtle
只字不提	zhi	ti	(idiom) to say not a single word about it
只欠东风	zhi	feng	all we need is an east wind (idiom); lacking only one tiny crucial item
只眼独具	zhi	ju	see 獨具隻眼|独具只眼[du2 ju4 zhi1 yan3]
只知其一不知其二	zhi	er	to know the first, but not know the second (idiom); only partial information
只见树木不见森林	zhi	lin	can't see the wood for the trees
只言片语	zhi	yu	(idiom) just a word or two; a few isolated phrases
只说不做	zhi	zuo	to be all talk and no action
只限于	zhi	yu	to be limited to
只鸡斗酒	zhi	jiu	lit. a chicken and a bottle of wine (idiom); fig. ready to make an offering to the deceased, or to entertain guests
叫化子	jiao	zi	variant of 叫花子[jiao4 hua1 zi5]
叫花子	jiao	zi	beggar
叫苦不迭	jiao	die	to complain without stopping (idiom); to bitch endlessly; incessant grievances
叫苦连天	jiao	tian	to whine on for days (idiom); to endlessly grumble complaints; incessant whining
叫醒服务	jiao	wu	morning call; wake-up call (hotel service)
召陵区	shao	qu	Shaoling, a district of Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
召集人	zhao	ren	convener
叭啦狗	ba	gou	bulldog
叮叮当当	ding	dang	(onom.) ding dong; jingling of bells; clanking sound
叮叮猫	ding	mao	(dialect) dragonfly
叮当响	ding	xiang	(onom.) ding dong; jingling of bells; clanking sound
叮当声	ding	sheng	tinkle
可一而不可再	ke	zai	may be done once and once only; just this once
可不是	ke	shi	(coll.) exactly!; indeed; that's for sure
可丽露	ke	lu	canelé (a French pastry) (Tw)
可丽饼	ke	bing	crêpe (loanword)
可乐定	ke	ding	clonidine (drug) (loanword)
可乐饼	ke	bing	croquette
可乘之机	ke	ji	(idiom) an opportunity that someone (usually a villain or adversary) can exploit
可以意会不可言传	ke	chuan	can be understood, but not described (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); mysterious and subtle
可伦坡	ke	po	Colombo, capital of Sri Lanka (Tw)
可信任	ke	ren	trusty
可信度	ke	du	degree of credibility; reliability
可兰经	ke	jing	Quran (Islamic scripture)
可再生	ke	sheng	(of energy, natural resources etc) renewable
可决率	ke	lv	proportion needed to approve a decision
可决票	ke	piao	affirmative vote
可劲儿	ke	r	erhua variant of 可勁|可劲[ke3 jin4]
可卡因	ke	yin	cocaine (loanword)
可压缩	ke	suo	compressible
可取之处	ke	chu	positive point; merit; redeeming quality
可口可乐	ke	le	Coca-Cola
可可波罗	ke	luo	cocobolo (loanword)
可可米	ke	mi	Cocoa Krispies
可可粉	ke	fen	cocoa powder
可可脂	ke	zhi	(loanword) cocoa butter
可可西里	ke	li	Hoh Xil or Kekexili, vast nature reserve on Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau 青藏高原[Qing1 Zang4 gao1 yuan2]
可喜可贺	ke	he	worthy of celebration; gratifying; Congratulations!
可回收	ke	shou	recyclable
可圈可点	ke	dian	remarkable (performance, achievement etc); worthy of praise
可塑性	ke	xing	plasticity
可寻址	ke	zhi	addressable (computing); accessible via an address
可展曲面	ke	mian	(math.) a developable surface
可待因	ke	yin	codeine (loanword)
可心如意	ke	yi	see 稱心如意|称心如意[chen4 xin1 ru2 yi4]
可怜兮兮	ke	xi	miserable; wretched
可怜巴巴	ke	ba	pathetic; pitiful
可怜虫	ke	chong	pitiful creature; wretch
可怜见	ke	jian	(coll.) pitiable; to have pity on sb
可想而知	ke	zhi	(idiom) (it) goes without saying; can well be imagined
可懂度	ke	du	intelligibility
可执行	ke	xing	executable (computing)
可扩展标记语言	ke	yan	extensible markup language (XML)
可持续	ke	xu	sustainable
可持续发展	ke	zhan	sustainable development
可接受性	ke	xing	acceptability
可控硅	ke	gui	(electronics) silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR); thyristor
可擦写	ke	xie	erasable
可支付性	ke	xing	affordability
可支配收入	ke	ru	disposable income
可数名词	ke	ci	countable noun (in grammar of European languages)
可数集	ke	ji	countable set (math.); denumerable set
可有可无	ke	wu	not essential; dispensable
可望有成	ke	cheng	can be expected to be a success
可望而不可即	ke	ji	variant of 可望而不可及[ke3 wang4 er2 bu4 ke3 ji2]
可望而不可及	ke	ji	(idiom) in sight but beyond reach; unattainable; inaccessible
可歌可泣	ke	qi	lit. you can sing or you can cry (idiom); fig. deeply moving; happy and sad; inspiring and tragic
可溶性	ke	xing	solubility
可燃冰	ke	bing	clathrate hydrates
可燃性	ke	xing	flammable; flammability
可爱岛	ke	dao	Kauaʻi, fourth-largest island of the Hawaiian archipelago
可疑分子	ke	zi	suspect; person under suspicion
可知论	ke	lun	gnosticism, the philosophical doctrine that everything about the universe is knowable
可磁化体	ke	ti	magnetic medium; material capable of being magnetized
可移植	ke	zhi	portable (programming language)
可移植性	ke	xing	portability (programming language)
可结合性	ke	xing	associativity (xy)z = x(yz) (math.)
可编程	ke	cheng	programmable
可耕地	ke	di	arable land
可能性	ke	xing	possibility; probability
可行性	ke	xing	feasibility
可裂变	ke	bian	fissionable
可裂变同位素	ke	su	fissionable isotope
可裂变材料	ke	liao	fissionable material
可见光	ke	guang	visible light; light in optical spectrum
可视化	ke	hua	visualization
可视电话	ke	hua	videophone
可读性	ke	xing	readability
可转债	ke	zhai	convertible debt; convertible bond
可转让	ke	rang	transferable; negotiable
可转让证券	ke	quan	negotiable securities
可逆性	ke	xing	reversibility
可遇不可求	ke	qiu	can be discovered but not sought (idiom); one can only come across such things serendipitously
可采性	ke	xing	(mining) workability (of deposits of coal, ore etc)
可靠性	ke	xing	reliability
台东县	tai	xian	Taitung County in southeast Taiwan
台东市	tai	shi	Taitung city in southeast Taiwan, capital of Taitung county
台中市	tai	shi	Taichung, a city in central Taiwan
台伯河	tai	he	Tiber (river in Italy, the main watercourse of Rome)
台儿庄	tai	zhuang	see 台兒莊區|台儿庄区[Tai2 er2 zhuang1 Qu1]
台儿庄区	tai	qu	Tai'erzhuang, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
台克球	tai	qiu	(loanword) teqball
台前县	tai	xian	Taiqian, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
台北县	tai	xian	Taipei County in north Taiwan (now renamed 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4])
台北市	tai	shi	Taibei or Taipei, capital of Taiwan
台北捷运	tai	yun	Taipei Metro
台北金马影展	tai	zhan	Taipei Golden Horse Film Festival
台南市	tai	shi	Tainan city in Tainan county 臺南縣|台南县[Tai2 nan2 xian4], Taiwan
台南府	tai	fu	Tainan Prefecture, a prefecture of Taiwan under Qing rule
台安县	tai	xian	Tai'an, a county in Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
台山市	tai	shi	Taishan, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
台山话	tai	hua	Taishanese, a language of the Yue language group 粵語|粤语[Yue4 yu3] spoken in Jiangmen 江門|江门[Jiang1 men2] and in the Chinatowns of North America
台州市	tai	shi	Taizhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
台巴子	tai	zi	(derog.) Taiwanese; person from Taiwan
台式机	tai	ji	desktop computer
台式电脑	tai	nao	desktop computer
台江区	tai	qu	Taijiang, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
台江县	tai	xian	Taijiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
台湾关系法	tai	fa	Taiwan Relations Act (of US Congress, 1979)
台湾叶鼻蝠	tai	fu	Formosan leaf-nosed bat
台湾土狗	tai	gou	Formosan mountain dog, a breed native to Taiwan
台湾大学	tai	xue	National Taiwan University; abbr. to 臺大|台大[Tai2 Da4]
台湾山鹧鸪	tai	gu	(bird species of China) Taiwan partridge (Arborophila crudigularis)
台湾岛	tai	dao	Taiwan Island
台湾戴菊	tai	ju	(bird species of China) flamecrest (Regulus goodfellowi)
台湾拟啄木鸟	tai	niao	(bird species of China) Taiwan barbet (Psilopogon nuchalis)
台湾斑翅鹛	tai	mei	(bird species of China) Taiwan barwing (Actinodura morrisoniana)
台湾斑胸钩嘴鹛	tai	mei	(bird species of China) black-necklaced scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys erythrocnemis)
台湾林鸲	tai	qu	(bird species of China) collared bush robin (Tarsiger johnstoniae)
台湾棕噪鹛	tai	mei	(bird species of China) rusty laughingthrush (Pterorhinus poecilorhynchus)
台湾棕颈钩嘴鹛	tai	mei	(bird species of China) Taiwan scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus musicus)
台湾民主自治同盟	tai	meng	Taiwan Democratic Self-Government League
台湾海峡	tai	xia	Taiwan Strait
台湾画眉	tai	mei	(bird species of China) Taiwan hwamei (Garrulax taewanus)
台湾白喉噪鹛	tai	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-crowned laughingthrush (Pterorhinus ruficeps)
台湾省	tai	sheng	Taiwan province (PRC term)
台湾短翅莺	tai	ying	(bird species of China) Taiwan bush warbler (Locustella alishanensis)
台湾紫啸鸫	tai	dong	(bird species of China) Taiwan whistling thrush (Myophonus insularis)
台湾蓝鹊	tai	que	(bird species of China) Taiwan blue magpie (Urocissa caerulea)
台湾话	tai	hua	Taiwanese Hokkien
台湾酒红朱雀	tai	que	(bird species of China) Taiwan rosefinch (Carpodacus formosanus)
台湾雀鹛	tai	mei	(bird species of China) grey-cheeked fulvetta (Alcippe morrisonia)
台湾鹎	tai	bei	(bird species of China) Styan's bulbul; Taiwan bulbul (Pycnonotus taivanus)
台湾鹪鹛	tai	mei	(bird species of China) Taiwan cupwing; Taiwan wren-babbler (Pnoepyga formosana)
台湾黄山雀	tai	que	(bird species of China) yellow tit (Machlolophus holsti)
台球桌	tai	zhuo	billiards table
台积电	tai	dian	Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC), founded in 1987 (abbr. for 台灣積體電路製造公司|台湾积体电路制造公司[Tai2 wan1 Ji1 ti3 Dian4 lu4 Zhi4 zao4 Gong1 si1])
台罗字	tai	zi	Tai-lo, romanization system for Taiwanese Hokkien (abbr. for 臺灣閩南語羅馬字拼音方案|台湾闽南语罗马字拼音方案[Tai2 wan1 Min3 nan2 yu3 Luo2 ma3 zi4 Pin1 yin1 Fang1 an4])
台胞证	tai	zheng	Mainland Travel Permit for Taiwan Residents; Taiwan Compatriot Entry Permit; abbr. for 台灣居民來往大陸通行證|台湾居民来往大陆通行证[Tai2 wan1 Ju1 min2 Lai2 wang3 Da4 lu4 Tong1 xing2 zheng4]
台虎钳	tai	qian	bench vise
台面呢	tai	ni	(billiards) baize
台风眼	tai	yan	the eye of a typhoon
叱咤风云	chi	yun	lit. to rebuke Heaven and Earth (idiom); fig. shaking the whole world; all-powerful
史丹佛	shi	fo	(Tw) Stanford (University)
史丹福大学	shi	xue	Stanford University
史丹顿岛	shi	dao	Staten Island, borough of New York City
史传小说	shi	shuo	historical novel
史前人	shi	ren	prehistoric man
史前古器物	shi	wu	prehistoric artifacts; ancient artifacts
史努比	shi	bi	Snoopy (comic strip pet dog)
史奴比	shi	bi	Snoopy (comic strip pet dog)
史威士	shi	shi	Schweppes (soft drinks company)
史学家	shi	jia	historian
史密斯	shi	si	Smith (name)
史思明	shi	ming	Shi Siming (703-761), military colleague of An Lushan 安祿山|安禄山[An1 Lu4 shan1], participated in the 755-763 An-Shi Rebellion 安史之亂|安史之乱[An1 Shi3 zhi1 Luan4]
史无前例	shi	li	(idiom) unprecedented in history
史普尼克	shi	ke	Sputnik, Soviet artificial Earth satellite; also written 斯普特尼克
史景迁	shi	qian	Jonathan D. Spence (1936–2021), British-American historian of China
史氏蝗莺	shi	ying	(bird species of China) Styan's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes pleskei)
史沫特莱	shi	lai	Agnes Smedley (1892-1950), US journalist and activist, reported on China, esp. the communist side
史泰博	shi	bo	Staples Inc., US office supply store
史特劳斯	shi	si	(Tw) Strauss (name); Johann Strauss (1825-1899), Austrian composer; Richard Strauss (1864-1949), German composer
史瓦帝尼	shi	ni	(Tw) Eswatini
史瓦济兰	shi	lan	Swaziland (Tw)
史瓦辛格	shi	ge	(Tw) see 施瓦辛格[Shi1 wa3 xin1 ge2]
史籀篇	shi	pian	Shizhoupian, early school primer in great seal script 大篆[da4 zhuan4], attributed to King Xuan of Zhou 周宣王[Zhou1 Xuan1 wang2] but probably dating from c. 500 BC
史莱姆	shi	mu	slime (loanword)
史蒂夫	shi	fu	Steve (male name)
史蒂文	shi	wen	Steven, Stephen (name)
史蒂文斯	shi	si	Stephens; Stevens
史诗性	shi	xing	epic
史诗级	shi	ji	epic; impressive
史诗般	shi	ban	epic
史迪威	shi	wei	Joseph Stilwell (1883-1946), commander of US forces in China, Burma and India in World War II
史高比耶	shi	ye	Skopje, capital of North Macedonia (Tw)
史黛西	shi	xi	Stacy (name)
右前卫	you	wei	right forward (soccer position)
右对齐	you	qi	to right justify (typography)
右撇子	you	zi	right-hander
右江区	you	qu	Youjiang, a district of Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
右派分子	you	zi	rightist; rightist elements
右玉县	you	xian	Youyu, a county in Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
右箭头	you	tou	right-pointing arrow
右箭头键	you	jian	right arrow key (on keyboard)
右边儿	you	r	erhua variant of 右邊|右边[you4 bian5]
叶伟文	ye	wen	alias of 葉偉民|叶伟民[Ye4 Wei3 min2]
叶伟民	ye	min	Raymond YIP Wai-Man, Hong Kong film director (debut as director: 1994)
叶克膜	ye	mo	(loanword) ECMO; extracorporeal membrane oxygenation
叶公好龙	ye	long	lit. Lord Ye's passion for dragons (idiom); fig. to pretend to be fond of sth while actually fearing it; ostensible fondness of sth one really fears
叶利钦	ye	qin	Yeltsin (name); Boris Yeltsin (1931-2007) first post-communist president of Russia 1991-1999
叶卡捷琳堡	ye	bao	Yekaterinburg (Russian city, also known as Ekaterinburg or Sverdlovsk)
叶卡捷琳娜	ye	na	Yekaterina or Ekaterina (name); Catherine the Great or Catherine the Second (1684-1727), Empress of Russia
叶口蝠科	ye	ke	(zoology) New World leaf-nosed bats (Phyllostomidae)
叶圣陶	ye	tao	Ye Shengtao (1894-1988), writer and editor, known esp. for children's books
叶城县	ye	xian	Kargilik, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
叶子列	ye	lie	leaf arrangement; phyllotaxy (botany)
叶子板	ye	ban	(Tw) fender (automotive)
叶尔羌河	ye	he	Yarkant River in Xinjiang
叶永烈	ye	lie	Ye Yonglie (1940-), popular science writer
叶江川	ye	chuan	Ye Jiangchuan
叶片状	ye	zhuang	foliated; striated into thin leaves
叶礼庭	ye	ting	Michael Grant Ignatieff (1947-), leader of the Liberal Party of Canada
叶绿体	ye	ti	chloroplast
叶绿素	ye	su	chlorophyll
叶落归根	ye	gen	a falling leaf returns to the roots (idiom); everything has its ancestral home; In old age, an expatriate longs to return home.
叶轮机械	ye	xie	turbomachine
叶选平	ye	ping	Ye Xuanping (1924-2019), former Governor of Guangdong 廣東|广东[Guang3 dong1]
叶里温	ye	wen	Yerevan, capital of Armenia (Tw)
叶集区	ye	qu	Yeji, a district of Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
叶黄素	ye	su	lutein (biochemistry)
叶鼻蝠	ye	fu	leaf-nosed bat
号令如山	hao	shan	lit. order like a mountain; a military order is inviolable; strict discipline
号召力	hao	li	to have the power to rally supporters
号啕大哭	hao	ku	variant of 嚎啕大哭[hao2 tao2 da4 ku1]
号码牌	hao	pai	number plate; car license plate; CL:條|条[tiao2],塊|块[kuai4],片[pian4]
司令员	si	yuan	commander
司令官	si	guan	commander; officer in charge
司令部	si	bu	headquarters; military command center
司兼导	si	dao	driver-guide
司各特	si	te	Scott (name); Sir Walter Scott (1771-1832), Scottish romantic novelist
司售人员	si	yuan	bus crew; driver and conductor
司天台	si	tai	Observatory or Bureau of Astronomy (official title) from the Tang dynasty onwards
司徒雷登	si	deng	John Leighton Stuart (1876-1962), second-generation American missionary in China, first president of Yenching University and later United States ambassador to China
司汤达	si	da	Stendhal
司法人员	si	yuan	judicial officer
司法官	si	guan	(Tw) judges and prosecutors
司法机关	si	guan	judicial authorities
司法权	si	quan	jurisdiction
司法独立	si	li	judicial independence
司法部	si	bu	Ministry of Justice (PRC etc); Justice Department (USA etc)
司法院	si	yuan	Judicial Yuan, the high court under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
司空见惯	si	guan	a common occurrence (idiom)
司线员	si	yuan	line judge (tennis etc)
司美格鲁肽	si	tai	(loanword) semaglutide – drug used to treat type 2 diabetes and obesity, marketed under the trademarks Ozempic, Rybelsus and Wegovy
司陶特	si	te	(Tw) (loanword) stout (beer)
司马光	si	guang	Sima Guang (1019-1086), politician and historian of Northern Song, author of Comprehensive Mirror for aid in Government 資治通鑒|资治通鉴
司马懿	si	yi	Sima Yi (179-251), warlord under Cao Cao and subsequently founder of the Jin dynasty
司马承帧	si	zhen	Sima Chengzhen (655-735), Daoist priest in Tang dynasty
司马昭	si	zhao	Sima Zhao (211-265), military general and statesman of Cao Wei 曹魏[Cao2 Wei4]
司马昭之心路人皆知	si	zhi	lit. Sima Zhao's intentions are obvious to everyone (idiom); fig. an open secret
司马法	si	fa	“Methods of Sima”, also called “Sima Rangju’s Art of War”, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], written by Sima Rangju 司馬穰苴|司马穰苴[Si1 ma3 Rang2 ju1]
司马炎	si	yan	Sima Yan (236–290), founder and first emperor (265–290) of the Western Jin dynasty 西晉|西晋[Xi1 Jin4], posthumous name 晉武帝|晋武帝[Jin4 Wu3 di4]
司马穰苴	si	ju	Sima Rangju (c. 800 BC, dates of birth and death unknown), military strategist of the Qi State 齊國|齐国[Qi2 guo2] and author of “Methods of Sima” 司馬法|司马法[Si1 ma3 Fa3], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
司马谈	si	tan	Sima Tan (-110 BC), Han dynasty scholar and historian, and father of 司馬遷|司马迁[Si1 ma3 Qian1]
司马辽太郎	si	lang	SHIBA Ryotarō (1923-1996), Japanese author of historical novels
司马迁	si	qian	Sima Qian (145-86 BC), Han Dynasty historian, author of Records of the Grand Historian 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4], known as the father of Chinese historiography
叹为观止	tan	zhi	(idiom) to gasp in amazement; to acclaim as the peak of perfection
叹口气	tan	qi	to sigh
叽叽咕咕	ji	gu	(onom.) to mutter; to mumble; to whisper
叽叽喳喳	ji	zha	(onom.) chirp; twitter; buzzing
叽叽嘎嘎	ji	ga	(onom.) giggling noise
叽叽歪歪	ji	wai	(coll.) to go on and on (annoyingly); to mouth off; to make a fuss
叽咋柳莺	ji	ying	(bird species of China) common chiffchaff (Phylloscopus collybita)
叽哩咕噜	ji	lu	(onom.) to jabber; to rumble
叽里咕噜	ji	lu	see 嘰哩咕嚕|叽哩咕噜[ji1 li5 gu1 lu1]
吃一堑长一智	chi	zhi	Fall into the moat and you'll be wiser next time (idiom); One only learns from one's mistakes.
吃不上	chi	shang	unable to get anything to eat; to miss a meal
吃不下	chi	xia	not feel like eating; be unable to eat any more
吃不了兜着走	chi	zou	lit. if you can't eat it all, you'll have to take it home (idiom); fig. you'll have to take the consequences
吃不住	chi	zhu	to be unable to bear or support
吃不准	chi	zhun	to be unsure about a matter; to be uncertain; to be unable to make sense of sth
吃不到葡萄说葡萄酸	chi	suan	sour grapes (set expr. based on Aesop); lit. to say grapes are sour when you can't eat them
吃不开	chi	kai	be unpopular; won't work
吃不服	chi	fu	not be accustomed to eating sth; not be used to certain food
吃不来	chi	lai	to be unaccustomed to certain food; to not be keen on certain food
吃不消	chi	xiao	to be unable to tolerate or endure; to find sth difficult to manage
吃了定心丸	chi	wan	to feel reassured
吃亏上当	chi	dang	to be taken advantage of
吃人不吐骨头	chi	tou	ruthless; vicious and greedy
吃人血馒头	chi	tou	to take advantage of others' misfortune (idiom)
吃公粮	chi	liang	to be on the government payroll
吃别人嚼过的馍不香	chi	xiang	lit. bread previously chewed by someone has no flavor (idiom); fig. there's no joy in discovering something if someone else got there first
吃到饱	chi	bao	(Tw) all-you-can-eat (food); (fig.) unlimited usage (digital services etc)
吃力不讨好	chi	hao	arduous and thankless task (idiom); strenuous and unrewarding
吃后悔药	chi	yao	(fig.) to regret (doing sth)
吃哑巴亏	chi	kui	to be forced to suffer in silence; unable to speak of one's bitter suffering
吃喝嫖赌	chi	du	(lit.) to go dining, wining, whoring and gambling (idiom); (fig.) to lead a life of dissipation
吃喝拉撒	chi	sa	(coll.) eating, drinking, defecating and urinating; the mundane necessities of everyday life
吃喝拉撒睡	chi	shui	(coll.) eating, drinking, defecating, urinating and sleeping; the mundane necessities of everyday life
吃喝玩乐	chi	le	(lit.) to eat, drink, play and be merry (idiom); (fig.) to abandon oneself to a life of pleasure
吃回扣	chi	kou	to receive a kickback; to draw a commission
吃大亏	chi	kui	to cost one dearly; to end disastrously; to pay bitterly
吃大户	chi	hu	to plunder the homes of the wealthy for food (in times of famine); (of sb who has no income) to rely on others; to demand a "contribution" or "loan" from a business or wealthy individual
吃大锅饭	chi	fan	lit. to eat from the common pot (idiom); fig. to be rewarded the same, regardless of performance
吃奶之力	chi	li	all one's strength
吃奶的力气	chi	qi	all one's strength
吃奶的气力	chi	li	utmost effort
吃官司	chi	si	to face legal action; to get sued
吃小灶	chi	zao	to be given special treatment; to be treated in a favored way
吃屎都赶不上热乎的	chi	de	(lit.) if you were eating warm shit, it'd be stone cold by the time you finished it (saying); (fig.) (of a person) too slow; can't keep up
吃干抹净	chi	jing	(idiom) to devour (food); (idiom) to shamelessly take advantage; to ruthlessly exploit
吃干饭	chi	fan	(coll.) to be incompetent; useless; good-for-nothing
吃得住	chi	zhu	to be able to bear; to be able to support
吃得开	chi	kai	to be popular; to be getting on well; much in demand
吃得消	chi	xiao	to be able to endure (exertion, fatigue etc); to be able to afford
吃拿卡要	chi	yao	dinner invitations, grabbing, obstructing and demanding bribes; all kinds of abuse of power
吃枪药	chi	yao	(lit.) to have swallowed gunpowder; (fig.) to be ablaze with anger; ornery
吃水不忘挖井人	chi	ren	see 吃水不忘掘井人[chi1 shui3 bu4 wang4 jue2 jing3 ren2]
吃水不忘掘井人	chi	ren	Drinking the water of a well, one should never forget who dug it. (idiom)
吃熊心豹子胆	chi	dan	to eat bear heart and leopard gall (idiom); to pluck up some courage
吃牢饭	chi	fan	(coll.) to serve time in prison; (Tw) (sarcastic) to live off the prison system (getting free meals)
吃瓜群众	chi	zhong	peanut gallery (esp. in online forums); onlookers who are interested in the spectacle but don't have anything knowledgeable to say about it; (neologism c. 2016)
吃瓦片	chi	pian	(coll.) to live off income from rental properties
吃白食	chi	shi	to eat without paying; to freeload
吃白饭	chi	fan	to eat plain rice; (fig.) to eat and not pay for it; to sponge off others
吃皇粮	chi	liang	lit. to eat from government coffers; to serve as a government employee; to live off government money
吃着碗里看着锅里	chi	li	lit. eyeing what's in the pot as one eats from one's bowl (idiom); not content with what one already has; (of men, typically) to have the wandering eye
吃着碗里瞧着锅里	chi	li	see 吃著碗裡，看著鍋裡|吃着碗里，看着锅里[chi1 zhe5 wan3 li3 , kan4 zhe5 guo1 li3]
吃硬不吃软	chi	ruan	susceptible to force but not persuasion
吃空额	chi	e	to embezzle by adding to the payroll employees existing in name only
吃空饷	chi	xiang	to embezzle by adding to the payroll employees existing in name only
吃粮不管事	chi	shi	to eat without working (idiom); to take one's pay and not care about the rest
吃老本	chi	ben	to live off one's past achievements; to rest on one's laurels
吃苦头	chi	tou	to suffer; to suffer for one's actions; to pay dearly
吃苦耐劳	chi	lao	hardworking and enduring hardships (idiom)
吃螺丝	chi	si	(of an actor, announcer etc) to stumble over words (Tw)
吃角子老虎	chi	hu	slot machine
吃豆人	chi	ren	Pac-Man (computer game)
吃豆腐	chi	fu	to take liberties with (a woman); to tease with sexual innuendo; to sexually harass
吃软不吃硬	chi	ying	lit. eats soft food, but refuses hard food (idiom); amenable to coaxing but not coercion
吃软饭	chi	fan	to live off a woman
吃里扒外	chi	wai	(idiom) to work against the interests of sb one derives support from; to double-cross one's employer; to bite the hand that feeds
吃里爬外	chi	wai	variant of 吃裡扒外|吃里扒外[chi1 li3 pa2 wai4]
吃错药	chi	yao	(lit.) to have taken the wrong medicine; (fig.) (of one's behavior etc) different than usual; abnormal
吃闭门羹	chi	geng	to be refused entrance; to find the door closed
吃闲饭	chi	fan	to lead an idle life; to be a loafer
吃霸王餐	chi	can	to dine and dash; to leave without paying
吃青春饭	chi	fan	to make the most of one's youthfulness in one's choice of employment (e.g. modeling)
吃饭皇帝大	chi	da	eating comes first, then comes everything else (idiom) (Tw)
吃饱了饭撑的	chi	de	having nothing better to do; see 吃飽撐著|吃饱撑着
吃饱撑着	chi	zhe	having nothing better to do
吃馆子	chi	zi	to eat out; to eat at a restaurant
吃香喝辣	chi	la	lit. to eat delicious food and drink hard liquor (idiom); fig. to live well
吃鸭蛋	chi	dan	(fig.) to score 0 (on a test, in competition etc)
各不相同	ge	tong	to be quite varied; each one is different
各取所需	ge	xu	each takes what he needs (idiom)
各奔东西	ge	xi	to go separate ways (idiom); to part ways with sb; Taiwan pr. [ge4 ben1 dong1 xi1]
各奔前程	ge	cheng	each goes his own way (idiom); each person has his own life to lead
各就各位	ge	wei	(of the people in a group) to get into position (idiom); (athletics) On your mark!
各尽所能	ge	neng	each does his utmost (idiom); from each according to his means
各式各样	ge	yang	(of) all kinds and sorts; various
各得其所	ge	suo	(idiom) each in the correct place; each is provided for
各打五十大板	ge	ban	lit. to give each one a flogging of fifty strokes (idiom); fig. to punish the guilty and the innocent alike; to put the blame on both parties
各执一词	ge	ci	each sticks to his own version (idiom); a dialogue of the deaf
各执己见	ge	jian	each sticks to his own view (idiom); a dialogue of the deaf
各执所见	ge	jian	each sticks to his own view
各抒己见	ge	jian	everyone gives their own view
各拉丹冬山	ge	shan	Mount Geladaindong or Geladandong in Qinghai (6621 m), the main peak of the Tanggula mountain range 唐古拉山脈|唐古拉山脉[Tang2 gu3 la1 Shan1 mai4]
各拉丹冬峰	ge	feng	Mount Geladaindong or Geladandong in Qinghai (6621 m), the main peak of the Tanggula mountain range 唐古拉山脈|唐古拉山脉[Tang2 gu3 la1 Shan1 mai4]
各持己见	ge	jian	each sticks to his own opinion (idiom); chacun son gout
各族人民	ge	min	people of all ethnic groups; the peoples (of a nation)
各显所长	ge	chang	each displays their own strengths (idiom)
各有千秋	ge	qiu	each has its own merits (idiom)
各有所好	ge	hao	everyone has their likes and dislikes (idiom)
各界人士	ge	shi	all walks of life
各种各样	ge	yang	various kinds; all sorts
各自为政	ge	zheng	to do things each in one's own way
各色各样	ge	yang	(idiom) diverse; various; all kinds of
各行其是	ge	shi	each one does what he thinks is right (idiom); each goes his own way
各行各业	ge	ye	every trade; all professions; all walks of life
吆五喝六	yao	liu	lit. to shout out hoping for fives and sixes when gambling with dice; a hubbub of gambling
合不拢嘴	he	zui	unable to conceal one's happiness, amazement, shock etc; grinning from ear to ear; mouth agape
合不来	he	lai	(of people) to be incompatible; to not get along; to be unable to see eye to eye
合义复词	he	ci	compound word such as 教室[jiao4 shi4] or 國家|国家[guo2 jia1], whose meaning is related to the component hanzi, unlike compounds such as 玫瑰[mei2 gui1]
合乎情理	he	li	reasonable; to make sense
合于时宜	he	yi	in keeping with the current thinking; appropriate for the times (or for the occasion)
合众为一	he	yi	united as one; e pluribus unum
合众国	he	guo	federated nation; the United States
合众国际社	he	she	United Press International (UPI)
合众银行	he	hang	Bancorp, a US bank
合伙人	he	ren	partner (in a business or other joint venture)
合体字	he	zi	a Chinese character formed by combining existing elements - i.e. a combined ideogram 會意|会意 or radical plus phonetic 形聲|形声
合作伙伴	he	ban	partner (in a joint undertaking); collaborator
合作农场	he	chang	collective farm, Russian: kolkhoz
合作化	he	hua	collectivization (in Marxist theory)
合作市	he	shi	Hezuo, a county-level city in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
合作方	he	fang	(business) partner
合作社	he	she	cooperative; workers' or agricultural producers' cooperative etc
合作者	he	zhe	co-worker; collaborator; also collaborator with the enemy
合吃族	he	zu	lit. joint eaters; a restaurant social gathering, esp. organized online among strangers
合同各方	he	fang	parties to a contract (law)
合同法	he	fa	contract law
合唱团	he	tuan	chorus; choir
合四乙尺工	he	gong	names of the five notes of the Chinese pentatonic scale, corresponding roughly to do, re, mi, sol, la
合宪性	he	xing	constitutionality
合家欢	he	huan	group photo of whole family
合山市	he	shi	Heshan, a county-level city in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
合川区	he	qu	Hechuan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
合并症	he	zheng	complication (medicine)
合弓纲	he	gang	(zoology) Synapsida
合得来	he	lai	to get along with well; compatible
合情合理	he	li	(idiom) reasonable; fair
合成代谢	he	xie	anabolism (biology); constructive metabolism (using energy to make proteins etc); assimilation
合成器	he	qi	synthesizer (musical instrument)
合成数	he	shu	composite number (i.e. not prime, has a factorization)
合成橡胶	he	jiao	synthetic rubber
合成法	he	fa	(chemical) synthesis
合成洗涤剂	he	ji	synthetic detergent
合成物	he	wu	compound; composite; cocktail
合成石油	he	you	synthetic oil
合成类固醇	he	chun	anabolic steroids
合成纤维	he	wei	synthetic fiber
合成词	he	ci	compound word
合成语音	he	yin	assembled phonology
合成革	he	ge	synthetic leather
合掌瓜	he	gua	see 佛手瓜[fo2 shou3 gua1]
合时宜	he	yi	in keeping with the current thinking; appropriate for the times (or for the occasion)
合格证	he	zheng	certificate of conformity
合气道	he	dao	aikido (Japanese martial art); hapkido (Korean martial art)
合水县	he	xian	Heshui, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
合江县	he	xian	Hejiang, a county in Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
合法化	he	hua	to legalize; to make legal; legalization
合法性	he	xing	legitimacy
合浦县	he	xian	Hepu, a county in Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
合理化	he	hua	to rationalize; to make compatible; to streamline
合理性	he	xing	reason; rationality; rationale
合眼摸象	he	xiang	to touch an elephant with closed eyes (idiom); to proceed blindly
合纵连横	he	heng	Vertical and Horizontal Alliance, opposing stratagems devised by the School of Diplomacy 縱橫家|纵横家[Zong4 heng2 jia1] during the Warring States Period (425-221 BC)
合而为一	he	yi	to merge together (idiom); to unify disparate elements into one whole
合股线	he	xian	twine
合肥工业大学	he	xue	Hefei University of Technology
合肥市	he	shi	Hefei, prefecture-level city and capital of Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
合订本	he	ben	bound volume; one-volume edition
合议庭	he	ting	(law) collegiate bench; panel of judges
合辙儿	he	r	erhua variant of 合轍|合辙[he2 zhe2]
合阳县	he	xian	Heyang, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
吉之岛	ji	dao	JUSCO, Japanese chain of hypermarkets
吉事果	ji	guo	churro
吉亚卡摩	ji	mo	Giacomo (name)
吉人天相	ji	xiang	see 吉人自有天相[ji2 ren2 zi4 you3 tian1 xiang4]
吉人自有天相	ji	xiang	Heaven helps the worthy (idiom)
吉他带	ji	dai	guitar strap
吉他手	ji	shou	guitarist
吉他谱	ji	pu	guitar tablature
吉伯特氏症候群	ji	qun	Gilbert's syndrome
吉佳利	ji	li	Kigali, capital of Rwanda (Tw)
吉兰丹	ji	dan	Kelantan (state of Malaysia)
吉兰丹州	ji	zhou	Kelantan sultanate of Malaysia, near Thai border, capital Kota Baharu 哥打巴魯|哥打巴鲁[Ge1 da3 ba1 lu3]
吉兰丹河	ji	he	Kelantan River of Malaysia, near Thai border
吉利丁	ji	ding	(loanword) gelatin
吉利服	ji	fu	ghillie suit (loanword)
吉卜力工作室	ji	shi	Studio Ghibli, Japanese film studio
吉卜赛人	ji	ren	Gypsy
吉士粉	ji	fen	custard powder
吉大港	ji	gang	Chittagong (Bangladesh port city)
吉娃娃	ji	wa	Chihuahua (dog)
吉字节	ji	jie	gigabyte (2^30 or approximately a billion bytes)
吉安县	ji	xian	Ji'an, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
吉安市	ji	shi	Ji'an, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
吉尔伯特	ji	te	Gilbert (name)
吉尔伯特群岛	ji	dao	Gilbert Islands
吉尔吉斯	ji	si	Kyrgyz; (Tw, HK) Kyrgyzstan
吉尔吉斯人	ji	ren	Kyrgyz (person)
吉尔吉斯坦	ji	tan	Kyrgyzstan
吉尔吉斯斯坦	ji	tan	Kyrgyzstan
吉尔吉斯族	ji	zu	Kyrgyz ethnic group; also written 柯爾克孜族|柯尔克孜族[Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 zu2]
吉尔达	ji	da	gelada (Theropithecus gelada), Ethiopian herbivorous monkey similar to baboon
吉尼斯	ji	si	(name) Guinness
吉尼斯世界纪录	ji	lu	Guinness World Records
吉尼系数	ji	shu	(Tw) see 基尼係數|基尼系数[Ji1 ni2 xi4 shu4]
吉州区	ji	qu	Jizhou, a district of Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
吉州郡	ji	jun	Kilju county in North Hamgyeong province, North Korea
吉布地	ji	di	(Tw) Djibouti
吉布提	ji	ti	Djibouti
吉拉尼	ji	ni	Syed Yousuf Raza Gilani (1952-), Pakistan People's Party politician, prime minister 2008-2012
吉拉德	ji	de	Gillard (name)
吉普斯夸	ji	kua	Gipuzkoa or Guipúzcoa, one of the seven Basque provinces in north Spain
吉普赛人	ji	ren	Gypsy
吉普车	ji	che	jeep (military vehicle) (loanword)
吉木乃	ji	nai	see 吉木乃縣|吉木乃县[Ji2 mu4 nai3 Xian4]
吉木乃县	ji	xian	Jeminay Ciunty, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
吉木萨尔	ji	er	see 吉木薩爾縣|吉木萨尔县[Ji2 mu4 sa4 er3 Xian4]
吉木萨尔县	ji	xian	Jimsar, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
吉本斯	ji	si	Gibbons (name)
吉林大学	ji	xue	Jilin University
吉林市	ji	shi	Jilin, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
吉林省	ji	sheng	Jilin Province, capital Changchun 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4] (short name 吉[Ji2])
吉水县	ji	xian	Jishui, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
吉特巴	ji	ba	jitterbug (loanword)
吉电子伏	ji	fu	giga electron volt GeV (unit of energy equal to 1.6 x 10⁻¹⁰ joules)
吉百利	ji	li	Cadbury (name); Cadbury (brand)
吉祥物	ji	wu	mascot
吉罗米突	ji	tu	kilometer (old) (loanword)
吉迪恩	ji	en	Gideon (name, from Judges 6:11 onward); also written 基甸
吉里巴斯	ji	si	Kiribati (formerly the Gilbert Islands) (Tw)
吉野家	ji	jia	Yoshinoya (Japanese fast food chain)
吉阳区	ji	qu	Jiyang, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
吉隆县	ji	xian	Gyirong, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
吉隆坡	ji	po	Kuala Lumpur, capital of Malaysia
吉首市	ji	shi	Jishou, a county-level city in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
吉鲁巴	ji	ba	jitterbug (loanword)
吊儿郎当	diao	dang	sloppy
吊嗓子	diao	zi	voice training (for Chinese opera)
吊坠缚	diao	fu	strappado bondage
吊带背心	diao	xin	camisole (women's garment)
吊带衫	diao	shan	halter top; spaghetti strap top; sun top
吊死问疾	diao	ji	to grieve for the sick and the dying; to show great concern for people's suffering
吊死鬼	diao	gui	ghost of a person who died by hanging; hanged person; (coll.) inchworm
吊民伐罪	diao	zui	to console the people by punishing the tyrants (idiom)
吊点滴	diao	di	to put sb on an intravenous drip (Tw)
吊瓶族	diao	zu	"infusion clan", patients who prefer medication by drip rather than orally or by injection etc
吊盐水	diao	shui	(dialect) to put sb on an intravenous drip
吊胃口	diao	kou	(coll.) to keep sb in suspense; to tantalize; to keep on tenterhooks
吊膀子	diao	zi	(dialect) to flirt (derog.)
吊袜带	diao	dai	suspenders (for stockings)
吊裆裤	diao	ku	baggy pants; sagging pants
吊车尾	diao	wei	(coll.) lowest-ranking (student, participant etc); to rank at the bottom of the list; to finish last
吊钟花	diao	hua	Chinese New Year flower (Enkianthus quinqueflorus)
同一挂	tong	gua	(coll.) to have a lot in common (with sb); to get along well with each other
同业公会	tong	hui	trade association
同业拆借	tong	jie	call loan; short-term loan within banking
同义反复	tong	fu	tautology
同义字	tong	zi	synonym
同义词	tong	ci	synonym
同义语	tong	yu	synonym
同乐会	tong	hui	social gathering at which those attending take it in turns to perform for the whole group (music, dancing or comedy etc)
同人小说	tong	shuo	fan fiction
同仁堂	tong	tang	Tongrentang, Chinese pharmaceutical company (TCM)
同仁市	tong	shi	Tongren, a county-level city in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
同仇敌忾	tong	kai	anger against a common enemy (idiom); joined in opposition to the same adversary
同传耳麦	tong	mai	simultaneous interpretation headset
同位素	tong	su	isotope
同位素分离	tong	li	isotopic separation
同余式	tong	shi	congruence (math.); equation for residue modulo some number
同余类	tong	lei	(math.) congruence class; residue class
同侪压力	tong	li	peer pressure
同侪咨商	tong	shang	(Tw) peer counseling
同侪团体	tong	ti	peer group
同侪审查	tong	cha	(Tw) peer review
同分异构	tong	gou	isomerism (chemistry)
同分异构体	tong	ti	isomer (chemistry)
同化作用	tong	yong	assimilation; anabolism (biology); constructive metabolism (using energy to make proteins etc)
同卵双胞胎	tong	tai	identical twins
同名同姓	tong	xing	having same given name and family name
同型性	tong	xing	isomorphism
同型配子	tong	zi	isogamete
同声一哭	tong	ku	to share one's feeling of grief with others (idiom)
同声传译	tong	yi	simultaneous interpretation
同声翻译	tong	yi	simultaneous translation
同字框	tong	kuang	name of the radical 冂[jiong1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 13)
同安区	tong	qu	Tong'an, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
同宗同源	tong	yuan	to share the same origins; to have common roots
同室操戈	tong	ge	wielding the halberd within the household (idiom); internecine strife
同工同酬	tong	chou	equal pay for equal work
同床共枕	tong	zhen	to share the bed; (fig.) to be married
同床异梦	tong	meng	lit. to share the same bed with different dreams (idiom); ostensible partners with different agendas; strange bedfellows; marital dissension
同归于尽	tong	jin	to die in such a way that sb (or sth) else also perishes; to take sb down with oneself; to end in mutual destruction
同德县	tong	xian	Tongde, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
同心协力	tong	li	to work with a common purpose (idiom); to make concerted efforts; to pull together; to work as one
同心县	tong	xian	Tongxin, a county in Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
同心同德	tong	de	of one mind (idiom)
同性恋	tong	lian	homosexuality; gay person; gay love
同性恋恐惧症	tong	zheng	homophobia
同性恋者	tong	zhe	homosexual; gay person
同性爱	tong	ai	homosexual
同性相斥	tong	chi	like polarities repel each other; (fig.) like repels like
同情者	tong	zhe	supporter; sympathizer (esp. of political cause); fellow traveler
同手同脚	tong	jiao	clumsy; uncoordinated
同文馆	tong	guan	Tongwen Guan, 19th century college that trained translators for China's diplomatic corps, established in Beijing in 1862 and absorbed by the Imperial University in 1902
同日而语	tong	yu	lit. to speak of two things on the same day (idiom); to mention things on equal terms (often with negatives: you can't mention X at the same time as Y)
同时代	tong	dai	contemporary
同时期	tong	qi	at the same time; contemporary
同案犯	tong	fan	accomplice
同步加速器	tong	qi	synchrotron
同步卫星	tong	xing	(astronomy) synchronous satellite
同步口译	tong	yi	simultaneous interpretation (Tw)
同步数位阶层	tong	ceng	synchronous digital hierarchy; SDH
同步轨道	tong	dao	(astronomy) synchronous orbit
同母异父	tong	fu	(of a half-sibling) having the same mother but different father
同江市	tong	shi	Tongjiang, a county-level city in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
同流合污	tong	wu	to wallow in the mire with sb (idiom); to follow the bad example of others
同济大学	tong	xue	Tongji University
同温层	tong	ceng	(meteorology) stratosphere
同源词	tong	ci	cognate; words having a common origin
同父异母	tong	mu	(of a half-sibling) having the same father but different mother
同班同学	tong	xue	classmate
同理心	tong	xin	empathy
同甘共苦	tong	ku	shared delights and common hardships (idiom); to share life's joys and sorrows; for better or for worse
同甘苦	tong	ku	to share joys and sorrows; sharing good times and hard times; same as 同甘共苦
同病相怜	tong	lian	fellow sufferers empathize with each other (idiom); misery loves company
同盟会	tong	hui	Tongmenghui, Sun Yat-sen's alliance for democracy, founded 1905, became the Guomindang 國民黨|国民党 in 1912
同盟军	tong	jun	ally; allied forces
同盟国	tong	guo	allied nation; ally; confederation
同符合契	tong	qi	same sign, joint aim (idiom); fig. completely compatible; identical
同类相吸	tong	xi	Like attracts like.
同类相食	tong	shi	cannibalism
同类项	tong	xiang	(math.) like terms (in an algebraic expression)
同素异形体	tong	ti	allotropy
同翅目	tong	mu	Homoptera (insect suborder including cicadas, aphids, plant-hoppers, shield bugs etc)
同胞兄妹	tong	mei	sibling
同舟共济	tong	ji	cross a river in the same boat (idiom); fig. having common interests; obliged to collaborate towards common goals
同花大顺	tong	shun	royal flush (poker)
同花顺	tong	shun	straight flush (poker)
同蒙其利	tong	li	to both benefit
同行评审	tong	shen	peer review
同行评议	tong	yi	peer review
同路人	tong	ren	fellow traveler; comrade
同轴电缆	tong	lan	coaxial cable
同途殊归	tong	gui	same road out, different ones back
同道中人	tong	ren	kindred spirit
同道者	tong	zhe	like-minded person; person who shares the same ideals or goals; kindred spirit
同配生殖	tong	zhi	isogamy
同量异位素	tong	su	nuclear isobar
同音字	tong	zi	Chinese character that is pronounced the same (as another character)
同音词	tong	ci	homophone; homonym
同韵词	tong	ci	a word that rhymes (with another word)
同龄人	tong	ren	peer; one's contemporary; person of the same age
名不副实	ming	shi	the name does not reflect the reality (idiom); more in name than in fact; Reality does not live up to the name.; Excellent theory, but the practice does not bear it out.
名不正言不顺	ming	shun	(of a title, degree etc) illegitimately conferred
名不符实	ming	shi	the name does not correspond to reality (idiom); it doesn't live up to its reputation
名不虚传	ming	chuan	(idiom) to live up to one's famous name; its reputation is well deserved
名不见经传	ming	zhuan	(lit.) name not encountered in the classics; unknown (person); nobody
名义上	ming	shang	nominally
名义价值	ming	zhi	nominal value
名义账户	ming	hu	nominal bank account
名人堂	ming	tang	Hall of Fame
名人录	ming	lu	record of famous men; anthology of biographies
名从主人	ming	ren	(idiom) to refer to sth by the name its owners use; to refer to a place by the name its inhabitants use (e.g. refer to Seoul as 首爾|首尔[Shou3 er3] rather than 漢城|汉城[Han4 cheng2])
名列前茅	ming	mao	to rank among the best
名利双收	ming	shou	both fame and fortune (idiom); both virtue and reward
名利场	ming	chang	Vanity Fair (novel and magazine title)
名副其实	ming	shi	not just in name only, but also in reality (idiom); aptly named; worthy of the name
名古屋	ming	wu	Nagoya, city in Japan
名噪一时	ming	shi	to achieve fame among one's contemporaries (idiom); temporary or local celebrity
名场面	ming	mian	famous scene (e.g. in a movie)
名垂青史	ming	shi	lit. reputation will go down in history (idiom); fig. achievements will earn eternal glory
名存实亡	ming	wang	the name remains, but the reality is gone (idiom)
名山区	ming	qu	Mingshan, a district of Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
名山大川	ming	chuan	famous mountains and great rivers
名师出高徒	ming	tu	A famous teacher trains a fine student (idiom). A cultured man will have a deep influence on his successors.
名录服务	ming	wu	name service
名扬四海	ming	hai	to become known far and wide (idiom); famous
名正言顺	ming	shun	in a way that justifies the use of the term; genuine; proper
名源动词	ming	ci	denominal verb
名满天下	ming	xia	(idiom) famous throughout the land; renowned far and wide
名牌儿	ming	r	erhua form of 名牌[ming2 pai2]
名画家	ming	jia	famous painter
名目繁多	ming	duo	names of many kinds (idiom); items of every description
名称权	ming	quan	copyright; rights to a trademark
名称标签	ming	qian	name tag
名缰利锁	ming	suo	(idiom) the shackles of fame and fortune
名胜古迹	ming	ji	historical sites and scenic spots
名花有主	ming	zhu	(idiom) (of a woman) already taken
名草有主	ming	zhu	(idiom) (humorous) (of a man) already taken (male counterpart of 名花有主[ming2 hua1 you3 zhu3])
名落孙山	ming	shan	lit. to fall behind Sun Shan 孫山|孙山[Sun1 Shan1] (who came last in the imperial examination) (idiom); fig. to fail an exam; to fall behind (in a competition)
名角儿	ming	r	erhua variant of 名角[ming2 jue2]
名誉博士	ming	shi	honorary doctorate; Doctor Honoris Causae
名誉学位	ming	wei	honorary degree; academic degree Honoris Causa
名誉扫地	ming	di	to be thoroughly discredited; to fall into disrepute
名重识暗	ming	an	of great reputation but shallow in knowledge (idiom)
名量词	ming	ci	nominal classifier (in Chinese grammar); measure word applying mainly to nouns
名门望族	ming	zu	offspring a famous family (idiom); good breeding; blue blood
名驰遐迩	ming	er	to be famous far and wide
后会无期	hou	qi	(idiom) may never meet again; unlikely to meet again
后会有期	hou	qi	I'm sure we'll meet again some day. (idiom); Hope to see you again.
后信号灯	hou	deng	car rear indicator
后勤学	hou	xue	military logistics
后半叶	hou	ye	latter half (of a decade, century etc)
后半场	hou	chang	second half (of sporting competition)
后半夜	hou	ye	second half of the night (from midnight to sunrise)
后半生	hou	sheng	latter half of one's life
后发座	hou	zuo	Coma Berenices (constellation)
后台进程	hou	cheng	background process (computing)
后坐力	hou	li	recoil (of a gun); backlash; reactive force
后备军	hou	jun	rearguard
后备箱	hou	xiang	trunk; boot (of a car)
后天性	hou	xing	acquired (characteristic etc)
后悔不迭	hou	die	too late for regrets
后悔莫及	hou	ji	too late for regrets (idiom); It is useless to repent after the event.
后患无穷	hou	qiong	(idiom) there will be no end of trouble in the future
后感觉	hou	jue	after-sensation; after-impression
后挡板	hou	ban	backboard
后掩蔽	hou	bi	backward masking
后援会	hou	hui	support group (e.g. for an election candidate); fan club
后摇滚	hou	gun	post-rock (music genre)
后来居上	hou	shang	(idiom) see 後來者居上|后来者居上[hou4 lai2 zhe3 ju1 shang4]
后来者居上	hou	shang	the latecomers surpass their predecessors
后果自负	hou	fu	to take responsibility for the consequences of risky behavior; to have only oneself to blame if things go badly
后殖民	hou	min	postcolonial
后母脸	hou	lian	(Tw) (fig.) unpredictable, unstable weather
后汉书	hou	shu	History of Eastern Han (later Han), third of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], composed by Fan Ye 范曄|范晔[Fan4 Ye4] in 445 during Song of the Southern Dynasties 南朝宋[Nan2 chao2 Song4], 120 scrolls
后照镜	hou	jing	rearview mirror (Tw)
后现代主义	hou	yi	postmodernism
后生动物	hou	wu	metazoa; the animal kingdom
后生可畏	hou	wei	the young will be redoubtable in the years to come (idiom); the younger generations will surpass us in time
后甲板	hou	ban	afterdeck
后知后觉	hou	jue	to realize in hindsight; to realize belatedly; to be late to the party
后空翻	hou	fan	backward somersault; backflip
后继乏人	hou	ren	see 後繼無人|后继无人[hou4 ji4 wu2 ren2]
后继无人	hou	ren	to have no qualified successors to carry on one's undertaking
后继有人	hou	ren	(idiom) to have qualified successors to carry on one's undertaking
后置修饰语	hou	yu	postmodifier (grammar)
后置词	hou	ci	postposition; suffix; word placed after
后翻筋斗	hou	dou	backward somersault
后脑勺	hou	shao	back of the head
后花园	hou	yuan	backyard garden
后西游记	hou	ji	one of three Ming dynasty sequels to Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
后见之明	hou	ming	hindsight
后视镜	hou	jing	rearview mirror
后设认知	hou	zhi	metacognition (Tw)
后设资料	hou	liao	metadata (Tw)
后起之秀	hou	xiu	(idiom) an up-and-coming youngster; new talent; a brilliant younger generation
后跟提带	hou	dai	backstrap (of a shoe)
后车之鉴	hou	jian	lit. warning to the following cart (idiom); don't follow the track of an overturned cart; fig. draw lesson from the failure of one's predecessor; learn from past mistake
后车架	hou	jia	luggage carrier (bicycle)
后车轴	hou	zhou	back axle (of car)
后边儿	hou	r	erhua variant of 後邊|后边[hou4 bian5]
后进先出	hou	chu	to come late and leave first; last in, first out (LIFO)
后送医院	hou	yuan	evacuation hospital (military)
后遗症	hou	zheng	(medicine) sequelae; residual effects; (fig.) repercussions
后钩儿	hou	r	erhua variant of 後鉤|后钩[hou4 gou1]
后院起火	hou	huo	a conflict arises close to home (idiom)
后顾之忧	hou	you	fears of trouble in the rear (idiom); family worries (obstructing freedom of action); worries about the future consequences; often in negative expressions, meaning "no worries about anything"
后验概率	hou	lv	posterior probability (statistics)
后鼻音	hou	yin	velar nasal; consonant ng or ŋ produced in the nose with the back of the tongue against the soft palate
吐丝自缚	tu	fu	to spin a cocoon around oneself (idiom); enmeshed in a trap of one's own devising; hoist with his own petard
吐便当	tu	dang	(slang) (of a character) to reappear in a story line after having been supposedly killed off; cf. 領盒飯|领盒饭[ling3 he2 fan4]
吐故纳新	tu	xin	lit. to breathe out stale air and breathe in fresh (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); fig. to get rid of the old and bring in the new
吐槽大会	tu	hui	Roast! (PRC comedy series)
吐火罗人	tu	ren	Tokharian people of central Asia
吐瓦鲁	tu	lu	Tuvalu, island country in the SW Pacific (Tw)
吐绶鸡	tu	ji	turkey
吐舌头	tu	tou	to stick out one's tongue
吐苦水	tu	shui	to have bitter digestive fluids rising to the mouth; fig. to complain bitterly; to pour out one's sufferings
吐蕃王朝	tu	chao	Tibetan Tubo Dynasty 7th-11th century AD
吐谷浑	tu	hun	Tuyuhun, nomadic people related to the Xianbei 鮮卑|鲜卑[Xian1 bei1]; a state in Qinghai in 4th-7th century AD
吐鲁番	tu	fan	see 吐魯番市|吐鲁番市[Tu3 lu3 fan1 Shi4]
吐鲁番市	tu	shi	Turpan, prefecture-level city in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
吐鲁番盆地	tu	di	the Turpan Depression in Xinjiang
向右拐	xiang	guai	to turn right
向壁虚构	xiang	gou	facing a wall, an imaginary construction (idiom); baseless fabrication
向壁虚造	xiang	zao	facing a wall, an imaginary construction (idiom); baseless fabrication
向家坝	xiang	ba	Xiangjiaba Dam, Yunnan, site of a hydropower station
向左拐	xiang	guai	to turn left
向巴平措	xiang	cuo	Qiangba Puncog (1947-), chairman of the government of Tibet (i.e. governor) 2003-2010
向心力	xiang	li	centripetal force; (fig.) cohering force; cohesion
向日葵	xiang	kui	sunflower (Helianthus annuus)
向量图形	xiang	xing	(computing) vector graphics
向量积	xiang	ji	(math.) vector product; cross product
向量空间	xiang	jian	(math.) vector space; linear space
向阳区	xiang	qu	Xiangyang, a district of Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang; Xiangyang, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
向阳花	xiang	hua	sunflower
向隅而泣	xiang	qi	(idiom) to weep in solitude
吓一跳	xia	tiao	startled; to frighten; scared out of one's skin
吓吓叫	xia	jiao	(Tw) impressive (from Taiwanese 削削叫, Tai-lo pr. [siah-siah-kiò])
吓得发抖	xia	dou	to tremble with fear
吓破胆	xia	dan	to be scared out of one's wits; to scare stiff
吕不韦	lv	wei	Lü Buwei (?291-235 BC), merchant and politician of the State of Qin 秦國|秦国[Qin2 guo2], subsequent Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] Chancellor, allegedly the father of Ying Zheng 嬴政[Ying2 Zheng4], who subsequently became the first emperor Qin Shihuang 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]
吕嘉民	lv	min	Lü Jiamin (1946-) aka Jiang Rong 姜戎[Jiang1 Rong2], Chinese writer
吕宋岛	lv	dao	Luzon Island, north Philippines
吕宋海峡	lv	xia	Luzon Strait between Taiwan and Luzon Island (Philippines)
吕布戟	lv	ji	snake halberd
吕梁市	lv	shi	Lüliang, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
吕氏春秋	lv	qiu	lit. “Mr. Lü's Spring and Autumn (Annals)”, compendium of the philosophies of the Hundred Schools of Thought 諸子百家|诸子百家[zhu1 zi3 bai3 jia1], compiled around 239 BC under the patronage of Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] Chancellor Lü Buwei 呂不韋|吕不韦[Lu:3 Bu4 wei2]
吕洞宾	lv	bin	Lü Dongbin (796-), Tang Dynasty scholar, one of the Eight Immortals 八仙[Ba1 xian1]
吕纯阳	lv	yang	see 呂洞賓|吕洞宾[Lu:3 Dong4 bin1]
吕贝克	lv	ke	Lübeck, Germany
吖丁啶	a	ding	azetidine (chemistry) (loanword)
君主制	jun	zhi	monarchy
君主国	jun	guo	monarchy; sovereign state
君主政体	jun	ti	monarchy; autocracy
君主政治	jun	zhi	monarchy
君主立宪	jun	xian	constitutional monarchy
君士坦丁堡	jun	bao	Constantinople, capital of Byzantium
君子一言驷马难追	jun	zhui	a nobleman's word is his bond (proverb)
君子不计小人过	jun	guo	see 大人不記小人過|大人不记小人过[da4 ren2 bu4 ji4 xiao3 ren2 guo4]
君子之交	jun	jiao	friendship between gentlemen, insipid as water (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
君子之交淡如水	jun	shui	a gentleman's friendship, insipid as water (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
君子兰	jun	lan	scarlet kafir lily; Clivia miniata (botany)
君子动口不动手	jun	shou	a gentleman uses his mouth and not his fist
君子报仇十年不晚	jun	wan	lit. for a nobleman to take revenge, ten years is not too long (idiom); fig. revenge is a dish best served cold
君子远庖厨	jun	chu	lit. a nobleman stays clear of the kitchen (idiom, from Mencius); fig. a nobleman who has seen a living animal cannot bear to see it die, hence he keeps away from the kitchen
君山区	jun	qu	Junshan, a district of Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
吝啬鬼	lin	gui	miser; penny-pincher
吞云吐雾	tun	wu	to swallow clouds and blow out fog (idiom); to blow cigarette or opium smoke
吞吐量	tun	liang	throughput
吞吞吐吐	tun	tu	to hum and haw (idiom); to mumble as if hiding sth; to speak and break off, then start again; to hold sth back
吞咽困难	tun	nan	dysphagia (medicine)
吞噬作用	tun	yong	(biology) phagocytosis
吞噬细胞	tun	bao	phagocyte (cell that ingests and destroys foreign matter)
吞声忍气	tun	qi	see 忍氣吞聲|忍气吞声[ren3 qi4 tun1 sheng1]
吞拿鱼	tun	yu	(loanword) tuna
吞米桑布札	tun	zha	Tunmi Sanghuzha (6th century AD), originator of the Tibetan script
吟风弄月	yin	yue	lit. singing of the wind and the moon; fig. vacuous and sentimental (of poetry or art)
吡拉西坦	bi	tan	(pharmacology) (loanword) piracetam (C6H10N2O2), a nootropic
否决权	fou	quan	veto power
否决票	fou	piao	veto
否定句	fou	ju	negative sentence
否极泰来	pi	lai	extreme sorrow turns to joy (idiom)
吧唧吧唧	ba	ji	(onom.) smacking the lips
吧啦吧啦	ba	la	(loanword) blah blah blah
吧托女	ba	nv	scam girl; woman who lures men to an exorbitantly priced bar 酒吧[jiu3 ba1]
吨公里	dun	li	ton-kilometer (unit of capacity of transport system)
吩坦尼	fen	ni	fentanyl (loanword) (Tw)
含含糊糊	han	hu	(of speech) obscure; unclear; (of actions) vague
含味隽永	han	yong	fine, lasting flavor (of literature)
含商咀徵	han	zhi	(idiom) permeated with beautiful music
含垢忍辱	han	ru	(idiom) to bear shame and humiliation
含宫咀徵	han	zhi	(idiom) permeated with beautiful music
含山县	han	xian	Hanshan, a county in Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
含情脉脉	han	mo	full of tender feelings (idiom); tender-hearted
含水层	han	ceng	aquifer
含沙射影	han	ying	(idiom) to attack sb by innuendo; to make insinuations
含沙量	han	liang	sand content; quantity of sediment (carried by a river)
含油岩	han	yan	oil bearing rock
含糊不清	han	qing	unclear; indistinct; ambiguous
含糊其词	han	ci	to equivocate; to talk evasively (idiom)
含羞草	han	cao	mimosa; sensitive plant (that closes its leaves when touched)
含苞待放	han	fang	in bud; budding
含英咀华	han	hua	to savor fine writing (idiom)
含血喷人	han	ren	to make false accusations against sb (idiom)
含辛茹苦	han	ku	to suffer every possible torment (idiom); bitter hardship; to bear one's cross
含金量	han	liang	gold content; (fig.) value; quality; prestige
含饴弄孙	han	sun	lit. to play with one's grandchildren while eating candy (idiom); fig. to enjoy a happy and leisurely old age
听上去	ting	qu	to sound (difficult, worthwhile etc); to seem
听不到	ting	dao	can't hear
听不懂	ting	dong	unable to make sense of what one is hearing
听不见	ting	jian	not be able to hear
听不进去	ting	qu	not to listen; to be deaf to
听之任之	ting	zhi	(idiom) to take a laissez-faire attitude; to turn a blind eye (towards sth undesirable)
听其自便	ting	bian	to allow sb to do sth at his convenience
听其自然	ting	ran	to let things take their course; to take things as they come
听其言而观其行	ting	xing	hear what he says and observe what he does (idiom, from Analects); judge a person not by his words, but by his actions
听其言观其行	ting	xing	hear what he says and observe what he does (idiom, from Analects); judge a person not by his words, but by his actions
听力理解	ting	jie	listening comprehension
听墙根	ting	gen	to eavesdrop; to listen in secret to sb's conversations
听墙根儿	ting	r	erhua variant of 聽牆根|听墙根[ting1 qiang2 gen1]
听天安命	ting	ming	to accept one's situation as dictated by heaven (idiom)
听天由命	ting	ming	(idiom) to submit to the will of heaven; to resign oneself to fate; to trust to luck
听审会	ting	hui	hearing (law)
听小骨	ting	gu	ossicles (of the middle ear); three ossicles, acting as levers to amplify sound, namely: stapes or stirrup bone 鐙骨|镫骨, incus or anvil bone 砧骨, malleus or hammer bone 錘骨|锤骨
听得懂	ting	dong	to understand (by hearing); to catch (what sb says)
听得见	ting	jian	to be able to hear; can hear
听而不闻	ting	wen	to hear but not react (idiom); to turn a deaf ear; to ignore deliberately
听腻了	ting	le	fed up of hearing
听见风就是雨	ting	yu	lit. on hearing wind, to say rain; to agree uncritically with whatever people say; to parrot other people's words
听证会	ting	hui	(legislative) hearing
听诊器	ting	qi	stethoscope
听话听声锣鼓听音	ting	yin	to understand the unspoken implications (idiom)
听说读写	ting	xie	listening, speaking, reading and writing (language skills)
听起来	ting	lai	to sound like
听风就是雨	ting	yu	lit. to believe in the rain on hearing the wind (idiom); to believe rumors; to be credulous
听骨链	ting	lian	chain of ossicles (in the middle ear)
启东市	qi	shi	Qidong, a county-level city in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
启动区	qi	qu	boot sector (computing)
启动子	qi	zi	promoter
启发式	qi	shi	heuristic
启发法	qi	fa	heuristic method; heuristics
启应祈祷	qi	dao	Introitus (section of Catholic mass)
启德机场	qi	chang	Kai Tak Airport, international airport of Hong Kong from 1925 to 1998
启明星	qi	xing	(astronomy) Venus
启海话	qi	hua	Qihai dialect, a Wu dialect spoken in Tongzhou, Haimen, and Qidong districts in southern Jiangsu province, and on Chongming Island in Shanghai
启示录	qi	lu	the Revelation of St John the divine; the Apocalypse
启示者	qi	zhe	revelator
启蒙主义	qi	yi	Enlightenment (philosophy)
吱吱嘎嘎	zi	ga	(onom.) creaking and grating
吱吱声	zi	sheng	squeak
吱嘎声	zhi	sheng	(linguistics) creaky voice; vocal fry
吴三桂	wu	gui	Wu Sangui (1612-1678), Chinese general who let the Manchus into China and helped them establish the Qing Dynasty, later leading a revolt against Qing in an effort to start his own dynasty
吴下阿蒙	wu	meng	General Lü Meng 呂蒙|吕蒙 of the southern state of Wu (idiom); model of self-improvement by diligent study (from unlettered soldier to top strategist of Wu)
吴中区	wu	qu	Wuzhong, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
吴仁宝	wu	bao	Wu Renbao (1928-2013), former CCP chief of Huaxi Village 華西村|华西村[Hua2 xi1 Cun1], responsible for turning it into a modern rich community
吴任臣	wu	chen	Wu Renchen (1628-1689), Qing dynasty polymath and historian, author of History of Ten States of South China 十國春秋|十国春秋
吴作栋	wu	dong	Goh Chok Tong (1941-), Singapore businessman and politician, prime minister 1990-2004
吴侬娇语	wu	yu	see 吳儂軟語|吴侬软语[Wu2 nong2 ruan3 yu3]
吴侬软语	wu	yu	the soft and melodic Wu dialect
吴兴区	wu	qu	Wuxing, a district of Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
吴哥城	wu	cheng	Ankorwat, Cambodia
吴哥窟	wu	ku	Angkor Wat, temple complex in Cambodia
吴嘉经	wu	jing	Wu Jiajing (1618-1684), early Qing dynasty poet
吴堡县	wu	xian	Wubu, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
吴天明	wu	ming	Wu Tianming (1939-), PRC film director
吴头楚尾	wu	wei	lit. head in Wu and tail in Chu (idiom); fig. close together; head-to-tail; one thing starts where the other leaves off
吴孟超	wu	chao	Wu Mengchao (1922-), Chinese medical scientist and surgeon specializing in liver and gallbladder disorders
吴官正	wu	zheng	Wu Guanzheng (1938-), former CCP Secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection
吴川市	wu	shi	Wuchuan, a county-level city in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
吴市吹箫	wu	xiao	(idiom) to beg on the streets; to fall into utter destitution (allusion to Wu Zixu's 伍子胥[Wu3 Zi3 xu1] exile and humiliation as described in Sima Qian's "Records of the Grand Historian" 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4])
吴建豪	wu	hao	Wu Jianhao or Vanness Wu (1978-), Taiwan pop star and actor, F4 band member
吴忠市	wu	shi	Wuzhong, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
吴承恩	wu	en	Wu Cheng'en (1500-1582), author (or compiler) of novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
吴敬梓	wu	zi	Wu Jingzi (1701–1754), Qing dynasty novelist, author of The Scholars 儒林外史[Ru2 lin2 Wai4 shi3]
吴桥县	wu	xian	Wuqiao, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
吴永刚	wu	gang	Wu Yonggang (1907-1982), Chinese film director
吴江区	wu	qu	Wujiang, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
吴清源	wu	yuan	Go Seigen (1914–2014), Chinese-born Japanese professional Go player
吴牛见月	wu	yue	cow from Wu is terrified by the moon, mistaking it for the sun
吴玉章	wu	zhang	Wu Yuzhang (1878-1966), writer, educator and communist politician
吴王阖庐	wu	lu	King Helu of Wu (-496 BC, reigned 514-496 BC); also called 吳王闔閭|吴王阖闾
吴王阖闾	wu	lv	King Helu of Wu (-496 BC, reigned 514-496 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸; also called 吳王闔廬|吴王阖庐
吴自牧	wu	mu	Wu Zimu (lived c. 1270), writer at the end of the Song dynasty
吴起县	wu	xian	Wuqi, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
吴越同舟	wu	zhou	Wu and Yue in the same boat (idiom); fig. cooperation between natural rivals; to collaborate towards a common end; in the same boat together
吴越春秋	wu	qiu	History of the Southern States Wu and Yue (traditional rivals), compiled by Han historian Zhao Ye 趙曄|赵晔[Zhao4 Ye4], 10 extant scrolls
吴趼人	wu	ren	Wu Jianren (1867-1910), late Qing dynasty novelist, author of The strange state of the world witnessed over 20 years 二十年目睹之怪現狀|二十年目睹之怪现状
吴邦国	wu	guo	Wu Bangguo (1941-), PRC electrical engineer and politician, politburo member 1992-2012
吴郭鱼	wu	yu	(Tw) tilapia
吴镇宇	wu	yu	Francis Ng Chun-Yu (1961-), Hong Kong actor
吵吵嚷嚷	chao	rang	to make an (unnecessary) racket (idiom)
吵闹声	chao	sheng	noise
吸入剂	xi	ji	inhalant
吸入器	xi	qi	inhaler
吸入阀	xi	fa	suction valve
吸取教训	xi	xun	to draw a lesson (from a setback)
吸奶器	xi	qi	breast pump
吸尘器	xi	qi	vacuum cleaner
吸尘机	xi	ji	vacuum cleaner
吸引力	xi	li	attractive force (such as gravitation); sex appeal; attractiveness
吸引子	xi	zi	attractor (math., dynamical systems)
吸引子网络	xi	luo	attractor network
吸引眼球	xi	qiu	to attract attention; to catch attention
吸收剂量	xi	liang	absorbed dose
吸毒成瘾	xi	yin	drug addiction
吸气器	xi	qi	aspirator
吸湿性	xi	xing	moisture-absorbing; hygroscopic
吸烟区	xi	qu	smoking area
吸烟室	xi	shi	smoking room
吸盘鱼	xi	yu	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
吸虫纲	xi	gang	Class Trematoda; fluke; trematode worm, a parasite incl. on humans
吸蜜鸟	xi	niao	honeyeater (bird of family Meliphagidae)
吸血乌贼	xi	zei	vampire squid (Vampyroteuthis infernalis)
吸血鬼	xi	gui	leech; bloodsucking vermin; vampire (translated European notion)
吸铁石	xi	shi	magnet
吸附剂	xi	ji	absorbent
吸附性	xi	xing	absorption; absorbability (chemistry)
吸顶灯	xi	deng	flush-mounted ceiling lamp (loanword)
吹冷风	chui	feng	to blow cold; damping expectations by discouraging or realistic words
吹口哨	chui	shao	to whistle
吹叶机	chui	ji	leaf blower
吹吹拍拍	chui	pai	to boast and flatter
吹哨人	chui	ren	whistleblower
吹喇叭	chui	ba	(lit.) blowing the trumpet; (fig.) to praise sb; (slang) to give a blowjob
吹枕边风	chui	feng	to sway (sb) through pillow talk
吹毛求疵	chui	ci	lit. to blow apart the hairs upon a fur to discover any defect (idiom); fig. to be fastidious; nitpick
吹灯拔蜡	chui	la	lit. to blow out the lamp and put out the candle (idiom); fig. to die; to bite the dust
吹灰之力	chui	li	(idiom) a slight effort
吹牛拍马	chui	ma	to resort to bragging and flattering
吹牛皮	chui	pi	to boast; to talk big
吹球机	chui	ji	lottery machine
吹竽手	chui	shou	player of the yu 竽[yu2] (free reed wind instrument)
吹管乐	chui	yue	woodwind music
吹箫乞食	chui	shi	see 吳市吹簫|吴市吹箫[wu2 shi4 chui1 xiao1]
吹糠见米	chui	mi	instant results; lit. blow the husk and see the rice
吹胡子瞪眼	chui	yan	to get angry; to fume
吹风机	chui	ji	hair dryer
吹鼓手	chui	shou	(old) musicians at a wedding cortege or funeral procession; (fig.) trumpeter of sb's praises; booster
吾尔开希	wu	xi	Örkesh Dölet (1968-), one of the main leaders of the Beijing student democracy movement of 1989
呀呀学语	ya	yu	see 咿呀學語|咿呀学语[yi1 ya1 xue2 yu3]
呀诺达	ya	da	Yanoda, a rainforest in southern Hainan
呆会儿	dai	r	variant of 待會兒|待会儿[dai1 hui4 r5]
呆头呆脑	dai	nao	oafish; dull-witted
呆扳手	dai	shou	open spanner; open end spanner; flat spanner
呆若木鸡	dai	ji	lit. dumb as a wooden chicken (idiom); fig. dumbstruck
呈贡区	cheng	qu	Chenggong, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
呈阳性	cheng	xing	to test positive
呈阴性	cheng	xing	to test negative
告一段落	gao	luo	to come to the end of a phase (idiom)
告别式	gao	shi	parting ceremony; funeral
告密者	gao	zhe	tell-tale; informer (esp. to police); whistleblower
告示牌	gao	pai	notice; placard; signboard
告老还乡	gao	xiang	(idiom) to retire from official service due to old age and return to one's hometown
呋喃西林	fu	lin	furacilinum (loanword)
呒虾米	wu	mi	Boshiamy, input method editor for Chinese (from Taiwanese 無啥物, Tai-lo pr. [bô-siánn-mih] "it's nothing")
呕出物	ou	wu	vomitus
呕吐物	ou	wu	vomit
呕心沥血	ou	xue	lit. to spit out one's heart and spill blood (idiom); to work one's heart out; blood, sweat and tears
呜呜祖拉	wu	la	vuvuzela (horn) (loanword)
呜呼哀哉	wu	zai	alas; all is lost
呢呢痴痴	ni	chi	docile
呢喃细语	ni	yu	whispering in a low voice (idiom); murmuring
周一岳	zhou	yue	York Chow or Chow Yat-ngok (1947-), Hong Kong doctor and politician, Secretary for Health, Welfare and Food since 2004
周三径一	zhou	yi	when the circumference is three, the diameter is (approximately) one
周休二日	zhou	ri	(Tw) two-day weekend (usually Saturday and Sunday)
周传瑛	zhou	ying	Zhou Chuanying (1912–1988), Kunqu 崑曲|昆曲[Kun1 qu3] opera actor
周作人	zhou	ren	Zhou Zuoren (1885-1967), brother of Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4], academic in Japanese and Greek studies, briefly imprisoned after the war as Japanese collaborator, persecuted and died of unknown causes during the Cultural Revolution
周华健	zhou	jian	Wakin Chau (1960-), HK-born Taiwanese singer and actor
周口市	zhou	shi	Zhoukou, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
周口店	zhou	dian	Zhoukoudian prehistoric site in Fangshan district 房山區|房山区[Fang2 shan1 qu1], Beijing
周围性眩晕	zhou	yun	peripheral vertigo
周围神经	zhou	jing	(anatomy) peripheral nervous system
周宁县	zhou	xian	Zhouning, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
周宣王	zhou	wang	King Xuan, eleventh King of Zhou, reigned (828-782 BC)
周小川	zhou	chuan	Zhou Xiaochuan (1948–), Chinese economist, governor of the People's Bank of China 中國人民銀行|中国人民银行[Zhong1 guo2 Ren2 min2 Yin2 hang2] 2002–2018
周年庆	zhou	qing	anniversary celebration
周幽王	zhou	wang	King You of Zhou (795-771 BC), last king of Western Zhou 西周[Xi1 Zhou1]
周庄镇	zhou	zhen	Zhouzhuang, old canal town between Shanghai and Suzhou, tourist attraction
周总理	zhou	li	Premier Zhou Enlai 周恩來|周恩来 (1898-1976)
周恩来	zhou	lai	Zhou Enlai (1898-1976), Chinese communist leader, prime minister 1949-1976
周成王	zhou	wang	King Cheng of Zhou (1055-1021 BC), reigned 1042-1021 BC as the 2nd king of Western Zhou 西周[Xi1 Zhou1], son of King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2]
周扒皮	zhou	pi	Zhou the exploiter, archetypal character in short story 半夜雞叫|半夜鸡叫[ban4 ye4 ji1 jiao4]
周敦颐	zhou	yi	Zhou Dunyi (1017-1073), Song dynasty neo-Confucian scholar
周文王	zhou	wang	King Wen of Zhou state (c. 1152-1056 BC), reigned c. 1099-1056 BC as king of Zhou state, leading figure in building the subsequent Western Zhou dynasty, father of King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] the first Zhou dynasty king
周日圈	zhou	quan	(astronomy) diurnal circle
周日运动	zhou	dong	(astronomy) diurnal motion
周星驰	zhou	chi	Stephen Chow (1962-), Hong Kong actor, comedian, screenwriter and film director, known for his mo lei tau 無厘頭|无厘头[wu2 li2 tou2] movies
周有光	zhou	guang	Zhou Youguang (1906-2017), PRC linguist, considered the father of Hanyu Pinyin 漢語拼音|汉语拼音[Han4 yu3 Pin1 yin1]
周期函数	zhou	shu	periodic function
周期性	zhou	xing	periodic; periodicity (math); cyclicity
周期数	zhou	shu	periodic number
周期系	zhou	xi	periodic system; periodicity (chemistry)
周期表	zhou	biao	periodic table (chemistry); abbr. of 元素週期表|元素周期表[yuan2 su4 zhou1 qi1 biao3], periodic table of the elements
周期解	zhou	jie	periodic solution (math.)
周末愉快	zhou	kuai	have a nice weekend!
周村区	zhou	qu	Zhoucun, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
周杰伦	zhou	lun	Jay Chou (1979-), Taiwanese pop star
周树人	zhou	ren	Zhou Shuren, the real name of author Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
周梁淑怡	zhou	yi	Selina Chow (Chow Liang Shuk-yee) (1945-), Hong Kong politician
周武王	zhou	wang	King Wu of Zhou (-1043), personal name Ji Fa 姬發|姬发, reigned 1046-1043 BC as first king of Western Zhou dynasty 1046-1043 BC
周武王姬发	zhou	fa	King Wu of Zhou, personal name Ji Fa, reigned 1046-1043 BC as first king of Western Zhou dynasty 西周[Xi1 Zhou1] 1046-771 BC
周永康	zhou	kang	Zhou Yongkang (1942-), PRC petroleum engineer and politician
周润发	zhou	fa	Chow Yun-Fat (1955-), Hong Kong TV and film star
周渝民	zhou	min	Zhou Yumin or Vic Zhou (1981-), Taiwan singer and actor, member of pop group F4
周游世界	zhou	jie	to travel around the world
周游列国	zhou	guo	to travel around many countries (idiom); peregrinations; refers to the travels of Confucius
周王朝	zhou	chao	the Zhou dynasty from 1027 BC
周瑜打黄盖	zhou	gai	fig. with the connivance of both sides; fig. by mutual consent; cf Wu patriot Huang Gai submits to mock beating at the hands of General Zhou Yu to deceive Cao Cao 曹操[Cao2 Cao1] before the 208 battle of Redcliff 赤壁之戰|赤壁之战[Chi4 bi4 zhi1 Zhan4]
周瘦鹃	zhou	juan	Zhou Shoujuan (1895-1968), writer, translator and art collector in Suzhou, a victim of the Cultural Revolution
周穆王	zhou	wang	King Mu, fifth king of Zhou, said to have lived to 105 and reigned 976-922 BC or 1001-947 BC, rich in associated mythology
周立波	zhou	bo	Zhou Libo (1908-1979), left-wing journalist, translator and novelist; Zhou Libo (1967-), Chinese stand-up comedian
周而复始	zhou	shi	lit. the cycle comes back to the start (idiom); to move in circles; the wheel comes full circle
周至县	zhou	xian	Zhouzhi, a county in Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
周转不开	zhou	kai	to have financial difficulties; unable to make ends meet
周转不灵	zhou	ling	to have a cash flow problem
周转金	zhou	jin	revolving fund; working capital; petty cash
周边商品	zhou	pin	merch; spin-off product (related to a pop-culture franchise such as a movie, game or band etc)
周髀算经	zhou	jing	Zhou Bi Suan Jing, or Chou Pei Suan Ching, one of the oldest Chinese texts on astronomy and mathematics
呫吨酮	zhan	tong	xanthone (chemistry)
呱呱叫	gua	jiao	excellent; tip-top
呱呱坠地	gu	di	(idiom) (of a baby) to enter the world with a loud cry; to be born
呱呱堕地	gu	di	see 呱呱墜地|呱呱坠地[gu1 gu1 zhui4 di4]
呲牙咧嘴	zi	zui	variant of 齜牙咧嘴|龇牙咧嘴[zi1 ya2 lie3 zui3]
味之素	wei	su	Ajinomoto, Japanese food and chemical corporation
味同嚼蜡	wei	la	lit. tastes as if one is chewing wax (idiom); fig. tasteless; insipid
味噌汤	wei	tang	miso soup
味美思酒	wei	jiu	vermouth (loanword); Italian spiced fortified wine
味觉迟钝	wei	dun	amblygeustia; loss of food taste
呶呶不休	nao	xiu	(idiom) to chatter endlessly; to talk nonstop
呼中区	hu	qu	Huzhong, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
呼之即来	hu	lai	to come when called (idiom); ready and compliant; always at sb's beck and call
呼之即来挥之即去	hu	qu	to come when called (idiom); ready and compliant; always at sb's beck and call
呼之欲出	hu	chu	lit. ready to appear at the call (idiom); fig. on the verge of coming out into the open; (of a person's choice etc) on the point of being disclosed
呼伦湖	hu	hu	Hulun Lake of Inner Mongolia
呼伦贝尔	hu	er	see 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4]
呼伦贝尔市	hu	shi	Hulunbuir, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
呼伦贝尔草原	hu	yuan	Hulunbuir grasslands of Inner Mongolia
呼兰区	hu	qu	Hulan, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
呼叫中心	hu	xin	call center
呼叫器	hu	qi	pager; beeper
呼叫声	hu	sheng	whoop
呼吸器	hu	qi	(medicine) ventilator
呼吸机	hu	ji	(medicine) ventilator
呼吸管	hu	guan	snorkel
呼吸系统	hu	tong	respiratory system
呼吸调节器	hu	qi	regulator (diving)
呼吸道	hu	dao	respiratory tract
呼呼声	hu	sheng	whir
呼和浩特	hu	te	see 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4]
呼和浩特市	hu	shi	Hohhot, prefecture-level city and capital of Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
呼哧呼哧	hu	chi	(onom.) rapid breathing
呼哱哱	hu	bo	(coll.) hoopoe
呼啦啦	hu	la	flapping sound
呼啦圈	hu	quan	hula hoop (loanword)
呼啸而过	hu	guo	to whistle past; to hurtle past; to zip by
呼噜噜	hu	lu	(onom.) to snore; wheezing
呼图壁	hu	bi	see 呼圖壁縣|呼图壁县[Hu1 tu2 bi4 Xian4]
呼图壁县	hu	xian	Hutubi, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
呼天抢地	hu	di	(idiom) to cry out to heaven and knock one's head against the ground (as an expression of anguish)
呼拉圈	hu	quan	hula hoop (loanword)
呼朋引伴	hu	ban	to gather one's friends; to band together
呼朋引类	hu	lei	to call up all one's associates; rent-a-crowd
呼来喝去	hu	qu	to call to come and shout to go (idiom); to yell orders; always bossing people around
呼牛作马	hu	ma	to call sth a cow or a horse (idiom); it doesn't matter what you call it; Insult me if you want, I don't care what you call me.
呼牛呼马	hu	ma	to call sth a cow or a horse (idiom); it doesn't matter what you call it; Insult me if you want, I don't care what you call me.
呼玛县	hu	xian	Huma, a county in Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
呼风唤雨	hu	yu	to call the wind and summon the rain (idiom); to exercise magical powers; fig. to stir up troubles
命不久矣	ming	yi	at death's door
命中注定	ming	ding	decreed by fate (idiom); destined; fated
命中率	ming	lv	hit rate; scoring rate
命令列	ming	lie	command line (computing) (Tw)
命令句	ming	ju	imperative sentence
命令行	ming	hang	(computing) command line
命名日	ming	ri	name day (tradition of celebrating a given name on a certain day of the year)
命名法	ming	fa	nomenclature
命名系统	ming	tong	system of nomenclature
命在旦夕	ming	xi	to be at death's door (idiom)
命归黄泉	ming	quan	lit. to return to the Yellow Springs 黃泉|黄泉[Huang2 quan2] (idiom); fig. to die; to meet one's end
命根子	ming	zi	see 命根[ming4 gen1]
命理学	ming	xue	divination; divinatory art
命赴黄泉	ming	quan	to visit the Yellow Springs; to die
命途坎坷	ming	ke	to have a tough life; to meet much adversity in one's life
命途多舛	ming	chuan	to meet with many difficulties in one's life (idiom)
命题逻辑	ming	ji	propositional logic
咀嚼肌	ju	ji	(anatomy) muscles of mastication
咄咄怪事	duo	shi	(idiom) extraordinary occurrence; bizarre event
咄咄称奇	duo	qi	to cluck one's tongue in wonder
咄咄逼人	duo	ren	overbearing; forceful; aggressive
咆哮如雷	pao	lei	to be in a thundering rage (idiom)
和乐蟹	he	xie	Hele crab
和事佬	he	lao	peacemaker; mediator; (derog.) fixer
和和气气	he	qi	polite and amiable
和好如初	he	chu	to bury the hatchet; to become reconciled
和尚打伞	he	san	see 和尚打傘，無法無天|和尚打伞，无法无天[he2 shang5 da3 san3 , wu2 fa3 wu2 tian1]
和尚打伞无法无天	he	tian	lit. like a monk holding an umbrella — no hair, no sky (idiom) (punning on 髮|发[fa4] vs 法[fa3]); fig. defying the law and the principles of heaven; lawless
和布克赛尔	he	er	see 和布克賽爾蒙古自治縣|和布克赛尔蒙古自治县[He2 bu4 ke4 sai4 er3 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
和布克赛尔县	he	xian	see 和布克賽爾蒙古自治縣|和布克赛尔蒙古自治县[He2 bu4 ke4 sai4 er3 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
和平主义	he	yi	pacifism
和平会谈	he	tan	peace talks; peace discussions
和平共处	he	chu	peaceful coexistence of nations, societies etc
和平共处五项原则	he	ze	Zhou Enlai's Five Principles of Peaceful Coexistence; 1954 Panchsheel series of agreements between PRC and India
和平区	he	qu	Heping or Peace district (of many towns); Heping district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]; Heping district of Shenyang city 瀋陽市|沈阳市, Liaoning
和平县	he	xian	Heping, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
和平条约	he	yue	peace treaty
和平特使	he	shi	peace envoy
和平统一	he	yi	peaceful reunification
和平谈判	he	pan	peace negotiations
和平里	he	li	Hepingli neighborhood of Beijing
和平队	he	dui	(U.S.) Peace Corps
和平鸟	he	niao	(bird species of China) Asian fairy-bluebird (Irena puella)
和平鸽	he	ge	dove of peace
和得来	he	lai	variant of 合得來|合得来[he2 de5 lai2]
和政县	he	xian	Hezheng, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
和散那	he	na	Hosanna (in Christian praise)
和林格尔	he	er	see 和林格爾縣|和林格尔县[He2 lin2 ge2 er3 Xian4]
和林格尔县	he	xian	Horinger, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
和歌山	he	shan	Wakayama (prefecture in Japan)
和气生财	he	cai	(idiom) amiability makes you rich
和气致祥	he	xiang	(idiom) amiability leads to harmony
和田县	he	xian	Hotan, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
和田地区	he	qu	Hotan, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
和田市	he	shi	Hotan, a county-level city in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
和田河	he	he	Hotan River in Xinjiang
和田玉	he	yu	nephrite; Hotan jade
和盘托出	he	chu	lit. to put everything out including the tray; to reveal everything; to make a clean breast of it all
和睦相处	he	chu	to live in harmony; to get along with each other
和硕县	he	xian	Hoxud, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
和稀泥	huo	ni	to try to smooth things over; to paper over the issues; to gloss things over
和蔼可亲	he	qin	affable; genial
和衣而卧	he	wo	to lie down to sleep with one's clothes on
和解费	he	fei	money settlement (fine or payment to end a legal dispute)
和记黄埔	he	pu	Hutchison Whampoa (former investment holding company based in Hong Kong, founded in 1863, defunct in 2015)
和谐号	he	hao	CRH-series high-speed trains operated by China Railway
和谐性	he	xing	compatibility; mutual harmony
和达清夫	he	fu	Wadati Kiyoō (1902-1995), pioneer Japanese seismologist
和静县	he	xian	Hejing, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
和顺县	he	xian	Heshun, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
和颜悦色	he	se	amiable manner; pleasant countenance
和龙市	he	shi	Helong, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
咎有应得	jiu	de	(idiom) to deserve what one gets (punishment, mishap etc)
咎由自取	jiu	qu	(idiom) to have only oneself to blame; to bring trouble through one's own actions
咏叹调	yong	diao	aria
咏春拳	yong	quan	Yongchun - "Singing Spring Fist" (Chinese martial art)
咕咕叫	gu	jiao	sound made by an empty stomach
咕咾肉	gu	rou	sweet and sour meat (pork)
咕噜肉	gu	rou	sweet and sour meat (pork)
咖啡伴侣	ka	lv	Coffee-mate (non-dairy creamer manufactured by Nestlé)
咖啡厅	ka	ting	coffee shop
咖啡因	ka	yin	caffeine (loanword)
咖啡壶	ka	hu	coffee pot; coffee maker
咖啡室	ka	shi	coffee shop
咖啡屋	ka	wu	coffee house; café; CL:家[jia1]
咖啡师	ka	shi	barista
咖啡店	ka	dian	café; coffee shop
咖啡机	ka	ji	coffee machine; coffee maker
咖啡色	ka	se	coffee color; brown
咖啡豆	ka	dou	coffee beans
咖啡馆	ka	guan	café; coffee shop; CL:家[jia1]
咖啡馆儿	ka	r	erhua form of 咖啡館|咖啡馆[ka1 fei1 guan3]
咖喱粉	ga	fen	curry powder
咝咝声	si	sheng	hissing sound (onom.)
咧开嘴笑	lie	xiao	to laugh
咨询员	zi	yuan	advisor; consultant
咫尺天涯	zhi	ya	so close, yet worlds apart (idiom)
咬人狗儿不露齿	yao	chi	lit. the dog that bites does not show its fangs (idiom); fig. You can't tell the really dangerous enemy from his external appearance.
咬人的狗不露齿	yao	chi	lit. the dog that bites doesn't show its teeth (idiom); fig. the most sinister of people can look quite harmless
咬唇妆	yao	zhuang	bitten-lips look (darker lipstick applied on the inner part of the lips, and lighter on the outer part)
咬定牙关	yao	guan	see 咬緊牙關|咬紧牙关[yao3 jin3 ya2 guan1]
咬定牙根	yao	gen	see 咬緊牙關|咬紧牙关[yao3 jin3 ya2 guan1]
咬文嚼字	yao	zi	to bite words and chew characters (idiom); punctilious about minutiae of wording
咬牙切齿	yao	chi	(idiom) to gnash one's teeth; to fume with rage
咬甲癖	yao	pi	onychophagia (nail biting)
咬着耳朵	yao	duo	whispering in sb's ear
咬紧牙关	yao	guan	(idiom) to grit one's teeth tightly; (idiom) (fig.) to endure pain or suffering; to bite the bullet
咬紧牙根	yao	gen	see 咬緊牙關|咬紧牙关[yao3 jin3 ya2 guan1]
咬耳朵	yao	duo	(coll.) to whisper in sb's ear
咬舌自尽	yao	jin	to commit suicide by biting off one's tongue
咭咭呱呱	ji	gua	(onom.) giggling noise
咯咯哒	ge	da	(slang) chicken (playful term, from the sound a chicken makes); (slang) prostitute; hooker (via 雞|鸡[ji1] "prostitute")
咯咯笑	ge	xiao	chuckle
咸与维新	xian	xin	everyone participates in reforms (idiom); to replace the old with new; to reform and start afresh
咸丝丝	xian	si	slightly salty
咸丝丝儿	xian	r	erhua variant of 鹹絲絲|咸丝丝[xian2 si1 si1]
咸丰县	xian	xian	Xianfeng, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
咸丰草	xian	cao	(Tw) (botany) hairy beggarticks (Bidens pilosa var. radiata)
咸兴市	xian	shi	Hamhung, North Korea
咸宁市	xian	shi	Xianning, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
咸安区	xian	qu	Xian'an, a district of Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
咸水妹	xian	mei	(dialect) prostitute from Guangdong (esp. one in Shanghai before the Revolution) (loanword from "handsome maid")
咸水湖	xian	hu	salt lake
咸津津	xian	jin	nice and salty (taste)
咸津津儿	xian	r	erhua variant of 鹹津津|咸津津[xian2 jin1 jin1]
咸猪手	xian	shou	pervert (esp. one who gropes women in public)
咸酥鸡	xian	ji	see 鹽酥雞|盐酥鸡[yan2 su1 ji1]
咸镜北道	xian	dao	North Hamgyeong Province in northeast of North Korea, capital Chongjin 清津市[Qing1 jin1 shi4]
咸镜南道	xian	dao	South Hamgyeong Province of east North Korea
咸镜道	xian	dao	Hamgyeong Province of Joseon dynasty Korea, now divided into North Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡北道|咸镜北道[Xian2 jing4 bei3 dao4] and South Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡南道|咸镜南道[Xian2 jing4 nan2 dao4] of North Korea
咸阳市	xian	shi	Xianyang, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
咸阳桥	xian	qiao	Xianyang Bridge
咸鱼翻身	xian	shen	lit. the salted fish turns over (idiom); fig. to experience a reversal of fortune
咸鸭蛋	xian	dan	salted duck egg
咽下困难	yan	nan	dysphagia (medicine)
咽峡炎	yan	yan	angina; sore throat
咽鼓管	yan	guan	Eustachian tube (linking the pharynx 咽[yan1] to the tympanic cavity 鼓室[gu3 shi4] of the middle ear); auditory tube
咿呀学语	yi	yu	(of a baby) to babble
哀兵必胜	ai	sheng	an army burning with righteous indignation is bound to win (idiom)
哀告宾服	ai	fu	to bring tribute as sign of submission (idiom); to submit
哀毁瘠立	ai	li	see 哀毀骨立|哀毁骨立[ai1 hui3 gu3 li4]
哀毁骨立	ai	li	(idiom) to become emaciated from grief, esp. while mourning the death of a parent
哀江南赋	ai	fu	Lament for the South, long poem in Fu style by Yu Xin 庾信 mourning the passing of Liang of the Southern dynasties 南朝梁朝
哀的美敦书	ai	shu	(loanword) (old) ultimatum
哀而不伤	ai	shang	deeply felt but not mawkish (idiom)
哀莫大于心死	ai	si	nothing sadder than a withered heart (idiom attributed to Confucius by Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); no greater sorrow than a heart that never rejoices; the worst sorrow is not as bad as an uncaring heart
哀鸿遍野	ai	ye	lit. plaintive whine of geese (idiom); fig. land swarming with disaster victims; starving people fill the land
品丽珠	pin	zhu	Cabernet Franc (grape type)
品味生活	pin	huo	to appreciate life
品头论足	pin	zu	lit. to assess the head and discuss the feet (idiom); minute criticism of a woman's appearance; fig. to find fault in minor details; nitpicking
品学兼优	pin	you	excelling both in morals and studies (idiom); top marks for studies and for behavior (at school); a paragon of virtue and learning
品川区	pin	qu	Shinagawa district of Tokyo
品趣志	pin	zhi	Pinterest (photo-sharing website)
哄动一时	hong	shi	variant of 轟動一時|轰动一时[hong1 dong4 yi1 shi2]
哄堂大笑	hong	xiao	the whole room roaring with laughter (idiom)
哆啰美远	duo	yuan	Torobiawan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
哆啰美远族	duo	zu	Torobiawan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
哇沙比	wa	bi	wasabi (loanword) (Tw)
哇沙米	wa	mi	wasabi (loanword) (Tw)
哈丰角	ha	jiao	Cape Ras Hafun, Somalia, the easternmost point in Africa
哈伦裤	ha	ku	harem pants (loanword)
哈伯太空望远镜	ha	jing	Hubble Space Telescope
哈伯玛斯	ha	si	Jürgen Habermas (1929-), German social philosopher
哈佛大学	ha	xue	Harvard University
哈利伯顿	ha	dun	Halliburton (US construction company)
哈利法克斯	ha	si	Halifax (name); Halifax city, capital of Nova Scotia, Canada; Halifax, town in West Yorkshire, England
哈利路亚	ha	ya	(loanword) hallelujah
哈努卡	ha	ka	Hanukkah (Chanukah), 8 day Jewish holiday starting on the 25th day of Kislev (can occur from late Nov up to late Dec on Gregorian calendar); also called 光明節|光明节 and 哈努卡節|哈努卡节
哈努卡节	ha	jie	Hanukkah (Chanukah), 8 day Jewish holiday starting on the 25th day of Kislev (can occur from late Nov up to late Dec on the Gregorian calendar)
哈博罗内	ha	nei	Gaborone, capital of Botswana
哈吉斯	ha	si	haggis (a Scottish dish) (loanword)
哈哈大笑	ha	xiao	to laugh heartily; to burst into loud laughter
哈哈笑	ha	xiao	to laugh out loud
哈哈镜	ha	jing	distorting mirror
哈啰出行	ha	xing	Hellobike, transportation service platform
哈喇子	ha	zi	(dialect) saliva
哈基米	ha	mi	(slang) cat
哈士奇	ha	qi	husky (sled dog)
哈士蟆	ha	ma	Chinese brown frog (Rana chensinensis) (loanword from Manchu); Taiwan pr. [ha1 shi4 ma2]
哈奴曼	ha	man	Hanuman, a monkey God in the Indian epic Ramayana
哈姆雷特	ha	te	Hamlet (name); the Tragedy of Hamlet, Prince of Denmark c. 1601 by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
哈季奇	ha	qi	Goran Hadžić (1958-2016), Croatian Serb leader until 1994, indicted war criminal
哈密市	ha	shi	Hami, prefecture-level city in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
哈密瓜	ha	gua	Hami melon (a variety of muskmelon); honeydew melon; cantaloupe
哈尔斯塔	ha	ta	Harstad (city in Norway)
哈尔滨	ha	bin	see 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4]
哈尔滨工业大学	ha	xue	Harbin Institute of Technology
哈尔滨市	ha	shi	Harbin, sub-provincial city and capital of Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
哈尔登	ha	deng	Halden (city in Norway)
哈尼族	ha	zu	Hani ethnic group
哈巴河	ha	he	see 哈巴河縣|哈巴河县[Ha1 ba1 he2 Xian4]
哈巴河县	ha	xian	Habahe, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
哈巴狗	ha	gou	pekingese (dog); (fig.) sycophant; lackey
哈巴罗夫斯克	ha	ke	Khabarovsk, far eastern Russian city and province on the border with Heilongjiang province of China
哈巴谷书	ha	shu	Book of Habakkuk
哈巴雪山	ha	shan	Mt Haba (Nakhi: golden flower), in Lijiang 麗江|丽江, northwest Yunnan
哈布斯堡	ha	bao	Hapsburg (European dynasty)
哈得斯	ha	si	Hades
哈德斯	ha	si	Hades
哈德逊河	ha	he	Hudson River, New York State, USA
哈拉子	ha	zi	(dialect) saliva; also written 哈喇子[ha1 la2 zi5]
哈拉尔五世	ha	shi	Harald V of Norway
哈拉雷	ha	lei	Harare, capital of Zimbabwe
哈摩辣	ha	la	Gomorrah
哈日族	ha	zu	Japanophile (refers to teenage craze for everything Japanese, originally mainly in Taiwan)
哈普西科德	ha	de	harpsichord
哈根达斯	ha	si	Häagen-Dazs
哈梅内伊	ha	yi	Khamenei, Ayatollah Aly (1939-), Supreme Leader of Iran, aka Ali Khamenei
哈比人	ha	ren	Hobbit; see also 霍比特人[Huo4 bi3 te4 ren2]
哈灵根	ha	gen	Harlingen, the Netherlands
哈特福德	ha	de	Hartford
哈瓦那	ha	na	Havana, capital of Cuba
哈米吉多顿	ha	dun	Armageddon (in Revelation 16:16)
哈米尔卡	ha	ka	Hamilcar (c. 270-228 BC), Carthaginian statesman and general
哈罗德	ha	de	Harold, Harald, Harrod (name)
哈莱姆	ha	mu	Harlem district of Manhattan
哈萨克	ha	ke	Kazakh ethnic group; (Tw, HK) Kazakhstan
哈萨克人	ha	ren	Kazakh person; Kazakh people
哈萨克文	ha	wen	Kazakh written language
哈萨克斯坦	ha	tan	Kazakhstan
哈萨克族	ha	zu	Kazakh ethnic group
哈萨克语	ha	yu	Kazakh language
哈蒙德	ha	de	(surname) Hammond
哈蜜瓜	ha	gua	variant of 哈密瓜[ha1 mi4 gua1]
哈西纳	ha	na	Ms Sheikh Hasina (1947-), Bangladesh politician, prime minister 1996-2001 and from 2009
哈该书	ha	shu	Book of Haggai
哈贝尔	ha	er	Habel, Haber or Hubbell (name); Harbel (town in Liberia)
哈贝马斯	ha	si	Jürgen Habermas (1929-), German social philosopher
哈迪斯	ha	si	Hades
哈里发	ha	fa	(loanword) caliph; also written 哈利發|哈利发[ha1 li4 fa1]
哈里发国	ha	guo	caliphate
哈里发塔	ha	ta	Burj Khalifa, skyscraper in Dubai, 830 m high
哈里发帝国	ha	guo	Caliphate (Islamic empire formed after the death of the Prophet Muhammad 穆罕默德[Mu4 han3 mo4 de2] in 632)
哈里斯堡	ha	bao	Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
哈雷彗星	ha	xing	Halley's Comet
哈马斯	ha	si	Hamas (radical Palestinian group)
哈马黑拉岛	ha	dao	Halmahera, an island of Indonesia
哌替啶	pai	ding	pethidine (aka meperidine or Demerol) (loanword)
响叮当	xiang	dang	to tinkle; to jingle; to clank
响尾蛇	xiang	she	rattlesnake
响应号召	xiang	zhao	to answer a call to action
响应时间	xiang	jian	response time
响当当	xiang	dang	resounding; loud; well known
响水县	xiang	xian	Xiangshui, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
哐哐啷啷	kuang	lang	(onom.) crash; clank; clatter
哑口无言	ya	yan	dumbstruck and unable to reply (idiom); left speechless; at a loss for words
哑巴亏	ya	kui	pent-up unspoken grievances; suffering not willingly or possibly spoken of
哑巴吃黄莲	ya	lian	variant of 啞巴吃黃連|哑巴吃黄连[ya3 ba5 chi1 huang2 lian2]
哑巴吃黄连	ya	lian	no choice but to suffer in silence (idiom); also written 啞巴吃黃蓮|哑巴吃黄莲; (often precedes 有苦說不出|有苦说不出[you3 ku3 shuo1 bu5 chu1])
哑然失笑	ya	xiao	to laugh involuntarily; Taiwan pr. [e4 ran2 shi1 xiao4]
哑终端	ya	duan	dumb terminal
哔哔啪啪	bi	pa	(onom.) flopping sound
哔哩哔哩	bi	li	Bilibili, Chinese video-sharing website featuring scrolled user comments 彈幕|弹幕[dan4 mu4] overlaid on the videos
哗众取宠	hua	chong	sensationalism; vulgar claptrap to please the crowds; playing to the gallery
哗儿哗儿	hua	r	(dialect) sound used to call cats
哗啦一声	hua	sheng	with a crash; with a thunderous noise
哗啦啦	hua	la	(onom.) crashing sound
哥们儿	ge	r	erhua form of 哥們|哥们[ge1 men5]
哥伦布	ge	bu	Cristóbal Colón or Christopher Columbus (1451-1506); Columbus, capital of Ohio
哥伦比亚	ge	ya	Colombia (country in South America); Columbia (name of various entities, mostly in the USA)
哥伦比亚大学	ge	xue	Columbia University
哥伦比亚广播公司	ge	si	Columbia Broadcasting System (CBS)
哥伦比亚特区	ge	qu	District of Columbia, USA
哥利亚	ge	ya	Goliath
哥吉拉	ge	la	Godzilla (Tw)
哥尼斯堡	ge	bao	Königsberg, Baltic port city, capital of East Prussia (until WWII)
哥布林	ge	lin	goblin (loanword)
哥德堡	ge	bao	Gothenburg (city in Sweden)
哥德巴赫猜想	ge	xiang	the Goldbach conjecture in number theory
哥德式	ge	shi	(Tw) Gothic style
哥打巴鲁	ge	lu	Kota Bharu, city in Malaysia on border with Thailand, capital of Kelantan sultanate
哥斯大黎加	ge	jia	(Tw) Costa Rica
哥斯拉	ge	la	Godzilla
哥斯达黎加	ge	jia	Costa Rica
哥本哈根	ge	gen	Copenhagen or København, capital of Denmark
哥林多	ge	duo	(Protestantism) Corinth, city in Greece
哥林多前书	ge	shu	First epistle of St Paul to the Corinthians
哥林多后书	ge	shu	Second Epistle of St Paul to the Corinthians
哥特人	ge	ren	Goth (member of a historical East Germanic people)
哥特式	ge	shi	Gothic (style in architecture, art, literature etc)
哥白尼	ge	ni	Mikolaj Kopernik or Nicolaus Copernicus (1473-1543), Polish astronomer, mathematician and polymath
哥罗芳	ge	fang	(loanword) chloroform; trichloromethane CHCl3
哥老会	ge	hui	late-Qing underground resistance movement against the Qing dynasty
哥萨克	ge	ke	Cossack (people)
哦买嘎	o	ga	(loanword) oh my God!
哧溜溜	chi	liu	see 哧溜[chi1 liu1]
哨子声	shao	sheng	whistling sound
哩哩啦啦	li	la	scattered; intermittent; sporadic
哩哩啰啰	li	luo	verbose or unclear in speech; rambling and indistinct
哩哩罗罗	li	luo	endless mumbling (onom.); verbose and incomprehensible; talking endlessly
哩溜歪斜	li	xie	crooked; deformed; twisted
哪一个	na	ge	which
哪儿的话	na	hua	(coll.) not at all (humble expression denying compliment); don't mention it
哪儿跟哪儿	na	r	what's that have to do with it?; what's the connection?
哪壶不开提哪壶	na	hu	lit. mention the pot that doesn't boil (idiom); to touch a sore spot; to talk about sb's weak point
哪知道	na	dao	who would have thought that ...?
哪里哪里	na	li	you're too kind; you flatter me
哪门子	na	zi	(coll.) (emphasizing a rhetorical question) what; what kind; why on earth
哭丧棒	ku	bang	mourning staff draped in white, held at a funeral to show filial piety
哭丧着脸	ku	lian	to pull a long face; to wear a mournful expression
哭丧脸	ku	lian	long face; miserable look
哭哭啼啼	ku	ti	to weep endlessly; interminable wailing
哭天抹泪	ku	lei	to wail and whine; piteous weeping
哭得死去活来	ku	lai	to cry one's heart out
哭秋风	ku	feng	autumnal sadness
哭笑不得	ku	de	lit. not to know whether to laugh or cry (idiom); both funny and extremely embarrassing; between laughter and tears
哭鼻子	ku	zi	to snivel (usually humorous)
哮喘病	xiao	bing	asthma
哲人其萎	zhe	wei	a wise man has passed away (idiom)
哲人石	zhe	shi	philosopher's stone
哲学博士	zhe	shi	Doctor of Philosophy; PhD
哲学史	zhe	shi	history of philosophy
哲学家	zhe	jia	philosopher
哲蚌寺	zhe	si	Drepung monastery, Lhasa, Tibet
哺乳动物	bu	wu	mammal
哺乳期	bu	qi	breastfeeding period; lactation period; suckling period
哺乳类	bu	lei	mammals
哺乳纲	bu	gang	Mammalia, the class of mammals
哺母乳	bu	ru	breastfeeding
哼儿哈儿	heng	r	to hem and haw (loanword)
哼哼唧唧	heng	ji	whining; groaning; muttering
唇亡齿寒	chun	han	lit. without the lips, the teeth feel the cold (idiom); fig. intimately interdependent
唇形科	chun	ke	Labiatae, the taxonomic family including lavender, mint
唇枪舌剑	chun	jian	(idiom) to cross verbal swords; to have a heated verbal exchange
唇枪舌战	chun	zhan	see 唇槍舌劍|唇枪舌剑[chun2 qiang1 she2 jian4]
唇线笔	chun	bi	lip liner
唇颚裂	chun	lie	cleft lip and palate
唇齿相依	chun	yi	lit. as close as lips and teeth (idiom); closely related; interdependent
唇齿音	chun	yin	labiodental (e.g. the consonant f in standard Chinese)
唉声叹气	ai	qi	sighing voice, wailing breath (idiom); to heave deep sighs; to sigh in despair
唏哩哗啦	xi	la	variant of 稀里嘩啦|稀里哗啦[xi1 li5 hua1 la1]
唏里哗啦	xi	la	variant of 稀里嘩啦|稀里哗啦[xi1 li5 hua1 la1]
唐三藏	tang	zang	Tripitaka, the central character of the 16th century novel "Journey to the West" 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4], based on the monk Xuanzang 玄奘[Xuan2 zang4] (602–664)
唐中宗	tang	zong	Emperor Zhongzong of Tang, reign name of fourth Tang emperor Li Zhe 李哲[Li3 Zhe2] (656-710), reigned 705-710
唐人街	tang	jie	Chinatown; CL:條|条[tiao2],座[zuo4]
唐代宗	tang	zong	Emperor Taizong of Tang (727-779), reign name of ninth Tang emperor Li Yu 李豫[Li3 Yu4], reigned 762-779
唐伯虎	tang	hu	Tang Bohu or Tang Yin 唐寅 (1470-1523), Ming painter and poet, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
唐僖宗	tang	zong	Emperor Xizong of Tang, reign name of nineteenth Tang Emperor Li Xuan 李儇[Li3 Xuan1] (862-888), reigned 873-888
唐初四大家	tang	jia	Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang; refers to Yu Shinan 虞世南[Yu2 Shi4 nan2], Ouyang Xun 歐陽詢|欧阳询[Ou1 yang2 Xun2], Chu Suiliang 褚遂良[Chu3 Sui4 liang2] and Xue Ji 薛稷[Xue1 Ji4]
唐古拉	tang	la	Dangla or Tanggula mountain range on the Qinghai-Tibetan Plateau 青藏高原[Qing1 Zang4 gao1 yuan2]
唐古拉山	tang	shan	Dangla or Tanggula Mountains on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau
唐古拉山脉	tang	mai	Dangla or Tanggula Mountains on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau
唐吉诃德	tang	de	Don Quixote; also written 堂吉訶德|堂吉诃德[Tang2 ji2 he1 de2]
唐哀帝	tang	di	Emperor Aidi of Tang, reign name of twenty-first and last Tang emperor Li Zhu 李祝[Li3 Zhu4] (892-908), reigned 904-907
唐太宗	tang	zong	Emperor Taizong of Tang, reign name of second Tang emperor Li Shimin 李世民[Li3 Shi4 min2] (599-649), reigned 626-649
唐太宗李卫公问对	tang	dui	"Duke Li of Wei Answering Emperor Taizong of Tang", military treatise attributed to Li Jing 李靖[Li3 Jing4] and one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
唐宁街	tang	jie	Downing Street (London)
唐宋八大家	tang	jia	the eight giants of Tang and Song prose, esp. involved in the Classics movement 古文運動|古文运动[gu3 wen2 yun4 dong4], namely: Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈[Han2 Yu4], Liu Zongyuan 柳宗元[Liu3 Zong1 yuan2], Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1], the three Su's 三蘇|三苏[San1 Su1], Wang Anshi 王安石[Wang2 An1 shi2], Zeng Gong 曾鞏|曾巩[Zeng1 Gong3]
唐宣宗	tang	zong	Emperor Xuanzong of Tang (810-859), reign name of seventeenth Tang emperor Li Chen 李忱[Li3 Chen2], reigned 846-859
唐宪宗	tang	zong	Emperor Xianzong of Tang (778-820), reign name of twelfth Tang emperor Li Chun 李純|李纯[Li3 Chun2] reigned 805-820
唐家山	tang	shan	area in Beichuan county Sichuan
唐家璇	tang	xuan	Tang Jiaxuan (1938-), politician and diplomat
唐山大地震	tang	zhen	Great Tangshan Earthquake (1976)
唐山市	tang	shi	Tangshan, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
唐德宗	tang	zong	Emperor Dezong of Tang (742-805), reign name of tenth Tang emperor Li Kuo 李适[Li3 Kuo4], reigned 779-805
唐恩都乐	tang	le	Dunkin' Donuts
唐懿宗	tang	zong	Emperor Yizong of Tang (833-873), reign name of eighteenth Tang emperor Li Cui 李漼[Li3 Cui3], reigned 859-873
唐手道	tang	dao	Tang soo do (Korean martial art)
唐招提寺	tang	si	Toushoudaiji, the temple in Nara, Japan founded by Tang dynastic Buddhist monk Jianzhen or Ganjin 鑒真和尚|鉴真和尚 and his last resting place
唐敬宗	tang	zong	Emperor Jingzong of Tang (809-827), reign name of fourteenth Tang emperor 李湛[Li3 Zhan4], reigned 825-827
唐文宗	tang	zong	Emperor Wenzong of Tang (809-840), reign name of fifteenth Tang emperor 李昂[Li3 Ang2], reigned 827-840
唐明皇	tang	huang	Emperor Ming of Tang (685-762), also known as Emperor Xuanzong of Tang 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1], reigned 712-756
唐昭宗	tang	zong	Emperor Zhaozong of Tang, reign name of twentieth Tang emperor 李曄|李晔[Li1 Ye4] (867-904), reigned 888-904
唐武宗	tang	zong	Emperor Wuzong of Tang (814-846), reign name of sixteenth Tang emperor Li Chan 李瀍[Li3 Chan2], reigned 840-846
唐殇帝	tang	di	Emperor Shang of Tang, reign name of fifth Tang emperor Li Chongmao 李重茂[Li3 Chong2 mao4] (c. 695-715), reigned 710
唐氏儿	tang	er	child with Down syndrome
唐氏症	tang	zheng	(Tw) Down syndrome
唐氏综合症	tang	zheng	Down syndrome
唐河县	tang	xian	Tanghe, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
唐玄宗	tang	zong	Tang Emperor Xuanzong (685-762), also known as Emperor Ming of Tang 唐明皇[Tang2 Ming2 huang2], reign name of seventh Tang emperor 李隆基[Li3 Long1 ji1], reigned 712-756
唐睿宗	tang	zong	Emperor Ruizong of Tang, reign name of sixth Tang emperor Li Dan 李旦[Li3 Dan4] (662-716), reigned 684-690 and 710-712
唐穆宗	tang	zong	Emperor Muzong of Tang (795-825), reign name of thirteenth Tang emperor 李恆|李恒[Li3 Heng2] reigned 821-825
唐纳德	tang	de	(name) Donald
唐绍仪	tang	yi	Tang Shaoyi (1862-1939), politician and diplomat
唐老鸭	tang	ya	Donald Duck
唐肃宗	tang	zong	Emperor Suzong of Tang (711-762), reign name of eighth Tang emperor Li Heng 李亨[Li3 Heng1], reigned 756-762
唐诗三百首	tang	shou	Three Hundred Tang Poems, an anthology collected around 1763 by Sun Zhu 孫誅|孙诛[Sun1 Zhu1]
唐顺宗	tang	zong	Emperor Shunzong of Tang (761-806), reign name of eleventh Tang emperor Li Song 李誦|李诵[Li3 Song4], reigned 805-806
唐高宗	tang	zong	Emperor Gaozong of Tang, reign name of third Tang emperor Li Zhi 李治[Li3 Zhi4] (628-683), reigned 649-683
唐高祖	tang	zu	Emperor Gaozu of Tang, reign name of first Tang emperor Li Yuan 李淵|李渊[Li3 Yuan1] (566-635), reigned 618-626
唠唠叨叨	lao	dao	to chatter; to babble
唧唧喳喳	ji	zha	(onom.) chattering or giggling
唧唧嘎嘎	ji	ga	(onom.) cackling; creaking
唧唧歪歪	ji	wai	variant of 嘰嘰歪歪|叽叽歪歪[ji1 ji5 wai1 wai1]
唧筒座	ji	zuo	Antlia (constellation)
售后服务	shou	wu	after-sales service
售完即止	shou	zhi	while stocks last; subject to availability
售票口	shou	kou	ticket window
售票员	shou	yuan	ticket seller
售票处	shou	chu	ticket office
售货台	shou	tai	vendor's stall
售货员	shou	yuan	sales clerk; sales associate; retail salesperson
唯一性	wei	xing	uniqueness
唯利是图	wei	tu	(idiom) to be bent solely on profit; to put profit before everything else
唯命是从	wei	cong	to follow obediently
唯唯诺诺	wei	nuo	(idiom) to be a yes-man
唯心主义	wei	yi	philosophy of idealism, the doctrine that external reality is a product of consciousness
唯心论	wei	lun	philosophy of idealism, the doctrine that external reality is a product of consciousness
唯恐天下不乱	wei	luan	to wish for the whole world to be in chaos (idiom)
唯意志论	wei	lun	voluntarism; metaphysical view, esp. due to Schopenhauer 叔本華|叔本华[Shu1 ben3 hua2], that the essence of the world is willpower
唯物主义	wei	yi	materialism, philosophical doctrine that physical matter is the whole of reality
唯物论	wei	lun	(philosophy) materialism
唯理论	wei	lun	(philosophy) rationalism
唯识宗	wei	zong	Yogachara school of Buddhism ("consciousness only" school of Buddhism)
唯象理论	wei	lun	phenomenology
唱作人	chang	ren	singer-songwriter
唱双簧	chang	huang	lit. to sing a duet; fig. to collaborate with sb; also used satirically: to play second fiddle to
唱反调	chang	diao	to express a different view; to take a different position
唱对台戏	chang	xi	to put on a rival show (idiom); to set oneself up against sb; to get into confrontation
唱白脸	chang	lian	to play the role of the villain (idiom)
唱空城计	chang	ji	(lit.) to sing "The Empty City Stratagem" (idiom); (fig.) to put up a bluff to conceal one's weakness; (jocular) (of a place etc) to be empty; (of one's stomach) to be rumbling
唱红脸	chang	lian	to play the role of the hero (idiom); to play the good cop
唱诗班	chang	ban	choir
唱高调	chang	diao	to sing the high part; to speak fine sounding but empty words (idiom)
唱高调儿	chang	r	erhua variant of 唱高調|唱高调[chang4 gao1 diao4]
唱黑脸	chang	lian	to play the role of the strict parent (or superior etc)
唵嘛呢叭咪吽	an	hong	om mani padme hum (Buddhist mantra)
唾手可得	tuo	de	easily obtained; readily available
唾沫星子	tuo	zi	sputter
唾液腺	tuo	xian	salivary gland
唾面自干	tuo	gan	to be spat on in the face and let it dry by itself, not wiping it off (idiom); to turn the other cheek; to drain the cup of humiliation
唿喇喇	hu	la	roar of the wind
啃老族	ken	zu	(coll.) adults still living with and depending on their parents
啄木鸟	zhuo	niao	woodpecker
啄羊鹦鹉	zhuo	wu	kea (Nestor notabilis)
啄花鸟	zhuo	niao	flowerpecker (any bird of the family Dicaeidae)
商丘市	shang	shi	Shangqiu, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
商业中心	shang	xin	business center; commerce center
商业化	shang	hua	to commercialize
商业区	shang	qu	business district; downtown
商业发票	shang	piao	commercial invoice
商业应用	shang	yong	business application
商业机构	shang	gou	commercial organization
商业模式	shang	shi	business model
商业版本	shang	ben	commercial version (of software)
商业管理	shang	li	business administration
商业行为	shang	wei	business activity; commercial activity
商业计划	shang	hua	business plan
商业银行	shang	hang	commercial bank
商人银行	shang	hang	merchant bank
商务中心区	shang	qu	central business district (e.g. CBD of Beijing)
商务印书馆	shang	guan	The Commercial Press, Beijing (est. 1897)
商务汉语考试	shang	shi	Business Chinese Test (BCT)
商务舱	shang	cang	business class (travel class on airplanes, trains etc)
商务部	shang	bu	Department of Trade; Department of Commerce
商南县	shang	xian	Shangnan, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
商君书	shang	shu	The Book of Lord Shang, Legalist text of the 4th century BC
商品价值	shang	zhi	commodity value
商品化	shang	hua	commodification
商品粮	shang	liang	commodity grain (grain produced as a commodity rather than for self-sufficiency)
商品经济	shang	ji	commodity economy
商城县	shang	xian	Shangcheng, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
商学院	shang	yuan	business school; university of business studies
商州区	shang	qu	Shangzhou, a district of Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
商水县	shang	xian	Shangshui, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
商汤科技	shang	ji	SenseTime, artificial intelligence company focused on computer vision and deep learning technologies, founded in Hong Kong in 2014
商河县	shang	xian	Shanghe, a county in Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
商洛市	shang	shi	Shangluo, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
商科院校	shang	xiao	Business school
商科集团	shang	tuan	Shangke Corporation, PRC IT company (since 1994)
商纣王	shang	wang	King Zhou of Shang (11th century BC), notorious as a cruel tyrant
商都县	shang	xian	Shangdu, a county in Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
商鞅变法	shang	fa	Shang Yang's political reform of Qin state 秦國|秦国 of 356 BC and 350 BC, that put it on the road to world domination
啤酒厂	pi	chang	brewery
啤酒肚	pi	du	beer belly
啤酒节	pi	jie	Beer Festival
啤酒花	pi	hua	hops
啦啦队	la	dui	cheerleading squad
啦啦队长	la	zhang	cheerleader
啧啧称奇	ze	qi	to click one's tongue in wonder (idiom); to be astonished
啪啪啪	pa	pa	(slang) to have sex; jig-a-jig
啮齿动物	nie	wu	rodent
啮齿目	nie	mu	order of rodents (rats, squirrels etc)
啮齿类	nie	lei	rodents
啰里啰嗦	luo	suo	long-winded; verbose
啼笑皆非	ti	fei	lit. not to know whether to laugh or cry (idiom); between laughter and tears
啼饥号寒	ti	han	(idiom) to cry from hunger and cold; to suffer extreme poverty
喀什噶尔	ka	er	Kashgar or Qeshqer (Chinese Kashi) in the west of Xinjiang near Kyrgyzstan
喀什地区	ka	qu	Kashgar, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
喀什市	ka	shi	Kashgar, a county-level city in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
喀啦喀啦	ka	la	(onom.) clank
喀喇昆仑公路	ka	lu	Karakorum Highway, linking Pakistan and Xinjiang
喀喇昆仑山	ka	shan	Karakorum mountain range in west Xinjiang
喀喇昆仑山脉	ka	mai	Karakorum mountain range in west Xinjiang
喀喇沁	ka	qin	Harqin (Mongol: guard); Harqin banner or Kharchin khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia; also Harqin Left Mongol autonomous county in Chaoyang 朝陽|朝阳[Chao2 yang2], Liaoning
喀喇沁旗	ka	qi	Harqin banner or Kharchin khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
喀土穆	ka	mu	Khartoum, capital of Sudan
喀奴特	ka	te	Knuth or Canute (name)
喀尔喀	ka	ka	Khalkha, largest subgroup of Mongol people
喀尔巴阡山脉	ka	mai	Carpathian Mountains, 1500-km mountain range in Central and Eastern Europe
喀布尔	ka	er	Kabul, capital of Afghanistan
喀拉喀托	ka	tuo	Krakatoa island and volcano in the Sunda Strait
喀拉喀托火山	ka	shan	Krakatoa (volcanic island in Indonesia)
喀拉拉邦	ka	bang	Kerala (state in India)
喀拉昆仑山	ka	shan	Karakorum mountains
喀拉汗国	ka	guo	Karakhan Dynasty of central Asia, 8th-10th century
喀拉汗王朝	ka	chao	Karakhan dynasty of central Asia, 8th-10th century
喀斯特	ka	te	(geology) (loanword) karst
喀秋莎	ka	sha	Katyusha (name); name of a Russian wartime song; nickname of a rocket launcher used by the Red Army in WWII
喀纳斯湖	ka	hu	Kanas Lake in Xinjiang
喀麦隆	ka	long	Cameroon; Taiwan pr. [Ka4mai4long2]
喂母乳	wei	ru	breastfeeding
喃喃自语	nan	yu	to mumble to oneself
善后借款	shan	kuan	reconstruction loan provided by Great Powers to Yuan Shikai in 1913
善始善终	shan	zhong	where there's a start, there's a finish (idiom); to finish once one starts sth; to carry things through; I started, so I'll finish.
善意的谎言	shan	yan	white lie
善有善报	shan	bao	virtue has its rewards (idiom); one good turn deserves another
善有善报恶有恶报	shan	bao	virtue has its reward, evil its retribution
善男信女	shan	nv	lay practitioners of Buddhism
善罢干休	shan	xiu	variant of 善罷甘休|善罢甘休[shan4 ba4 gan1 xiu1]
善罢甘休	shan	xiu	(idiom) to let the matter rest; to just let it go; to take it lying down (usu. used in the negative)
善自为谋	shan	mou	to be good at working for one's own profit (idiom)
善自保重	shan	zhong	take good care of yourself!
善自珍摄	shan	she	take good care of yourself! (idiom)
善解人意	shan	yi	to be good at understanding others (idiom)
善言辞	shan	ci	articulate; eloquent
善财难舍	shan	she	to cherish wealth and find it hard to give up (idiom); refusing to contribute to charity; skinflint; miserly
喇叭形	la	xing	flared; funnel-shape; trumpet-shape
喇叭水仙	la	xian	daffodil
喇叭花	la	hua	morning glory
喇叭裙	la	qun	flared skirt
喇叭裤	la	ku	flared trousers; bell-bottomed pants
喇嘛庙	la	miao	lamasery; temple of Tibetan Buddhism
喇嘛教	la	jiao	Lamaism; Tibetan Buddhism
喉塞音	hou	yin	glottal stop
喉擦音	hou	yin	guttural fricative
喊话器	han	qi	megaphone
喋喋不休	die	xiu	(idiom) to chatter endlessly; to talk nonstop
喘不过	chuan	guo	to be unable to breathe easily
喘不过气来	chuan	lai	to be unable to breathe
喘吁吁	chuan	xu	to puff and blow
喘嘘嘘	chuan	xu	variant of 喘吁吁[chuan3 xu1 xu1]
喘粗气	chuan	qi	to pant heavily
喜不自禁	xi	jin	unable to contain one's joy (idiom)
喜不自胜	xi	sheng	unable to contain one's joy (idiom)
喜从天降	xi	jiang	joy from heaven (idiom); overjoyed at unexpected good news; unlooked-for happy event
喜冲冲	xi	chong	to beam with joy; in a happy mood
喜出望外	xi	wai	to be pleased beyond one's expectations (idiom); overjoyed at the turn of events
喜则气缓	xi	huan	joy depresses one's qi vital breath; an excess of joy may lead to sluggishness of vital energy (TCM)
喜吟吟	xi	yin	joyful; happy
喜喜欢欢	xi	huan	happily
喜大普奔	xi	ben	(of news etc) so thrilling that everyone is rejoicing and spreading the word (Internet slang); acronym from 喜聞樂見|喜闻乐见[xi3 wen2 le4 jian4], 大快人心[da4 kuai4 ren2 xin1], 普天同慶|普天同庆[pu3 tian1 tong2 qing4] and 奔走相告[ben1 zou3 xiang1 gao4]
喜孜孜	xi	zi	pleased; happy
喜山点翅朱雀	xi	que	(bird species of China) spot-winged rosefinch (Carpodacus rodopeplus)
喜山白眉朱雀	xi	que	(bird species of China) Himalayan white-browed rosefinch (Carpodacus thura)
喜山红眉朱雀	xi	que	(bird species of China) Himalayan beautiful rosefinch (Carpodacus pulcherrimus)
喜当爹	xi	die	(neologism c. 2012) (slang) to become a stepfather when one's partner turns out to be pregnant with a child she conceived with another lover
喜形于色	xi	se	face light up with delight (idiom); to beam with joy
喜德县	xi	xian	Xide, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
喜忧参半	xi	ban	to have mixed feelings (about sth)
喜怒哀乐	xi	le	(lit.) happiness, anger, sorrow, and joy (idiom); (fig.) emotions
喜怒无常	xi	chang	temperamental; moody
喜憨儿	xi	er	(Tw) intellectually impaired child or youth (affectionate term)
喜新厌旧	xi	jiu	lit. to like the new, and hate the old (idiom); fig. enamored with new people (e.g. new girlfriend), bored with the old
喜来登	xi	deng	Sheraton (hotel chain)
喜极而泣	xi	qi	crying tears of joy (idiom)
喜歌剧院	xi	yuan	musical theater; Opéra Comique, Paris
喜气洋洋	xi	yang	full of joy (idiom); jubilation
喜洋洋	xi	yang	radiant with joy
喜滋滋	xi	zi	pleased; happy
喜盈盈	xi	ying	happy; joyful
喜笑颜开	xi	kai	grinning from ear to ear (idiom); beaming with happiness
喜结良缘	xi	yuan	(idiom) to get happily married; to form an auspicious union
喜结连理	xi	li	to tie the knot (idiom); to get married
喜群游	xi	you	(ichthyology) gregarious
喜群飞	xi	fei	(ornithology) gregarious
喜跃抃舞	xi	wu	(idiom) to clap and dance in joy
喜闻乐见	xi	jian	to love to hear and see (idiom); well received; to one's liking
喜马拉雅	xi	ya	the Himalayas
喜马拉雅中杜鹃	xi	juan	(bird species of China) Himalayan cuckoo (Cuculus saturatus)
喜马拉雅山	xi	shan	Himalayas
喜马拉雅山脉	xi	mai	Himalayas
喝倒彩	he	cai	to boo or jeer (as a sign of displeasure at an actor)
喝凉水都塞牙	he	ya	(coll.) to be out of luck
喝断片	he	pian	to get blackout drunk (slang)
喝西北风	he	feng	(lit.) to drink the northwest wind (idiom); (fig.) to go hungry; to have nothing to eat
喧哗与骚动	xuan	dong	The Sound and the Fury (novel by William Faulkner 威廉·福克納|威廉·福克纳[Wei1 lian2 · Fu2 ke4 na4])
喧宾夺主	xuan	zhu	lit. the voice of the guest overwhelms that of the host (idiom); fig. a minor player upstages the main attraction; minor details obscure the main point
喵星人	miao	ren	cat (Internet slang)
喷丝头	pen	tou	spinneret; extrusion nozzle
喷他佐辛	pen	xin	(loanword) pentazocine (a synthetic opioid analgesic)
喷出岩	pen	yan	extrusive rock (geology)
喷喷香	pen	xiang	see 香噴噴|香喷喷[xiang1 pen1 pen1]
喷嘴儿	pen	r	erhua variant of 噴嘴|喷嘴[pen1 zui3]
喷嚏剂	pen	ji	sternutator
喷射机	pen	ji	jet plane; spraying machine
喷气发动机	pen	ji	jet engine
喷气式	pen	shi	jet-propelled
喷气式飞机	pen	ji	jet aircraft
喷气推进实验室	pen	shi	Jet Propulsion Laboratory, R&D center in Pasadena, California
喷气机	pen	ji	jet plane
喷水壶	pen	hu	watering can; sprinkling can
喷水池	pen	chi	a fountain
喷洒器	pen	qi	sprinkler; sprayer
喷火器	pen	qi	flamethrower
喷薄欲出	pen	chu	to be on the verge of eruption (idiom); (of the sun) to emerge in all its brilliance
喷雾器	pen	qi	sprayer; atomizer
喷鼻息	pen	xi	to snort
喹诺酮	kui	tong	quinolone (a hydroxylated quinoline, inhibiting the replication of bacterial DNA)
喻世明言	yu	yan	another name for 古今小說|古今小说[Gu3 jin1 Xiao3 shuo1], Stories Old and New by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2]
嗅探犬	xiu	quan	sniffer dog
嗓子眼	sang	yan	throat
嗓子眼儿	sang	r	erhua variant of 嗓子眼[sang3 zi5 yan3]
嗓门眼	sang	yan	throat
嗜杀成性	shi	xing	bloodthirsty
嗜睡症	shi	zheng	hypersomnia; excessive sleepiness (medical)
嗜碱性球	shi	qiu	basophil granulocyte (type of white blood cell)
嗜碱性粒细胞	shi	bao	basophil granulocytes (rarest type of white blood cell)
嗜血杆菌	shi	jun	hemophile bacteria; hemophilus
嗜酒如命	shi	ming	to love wine as one's life (idiom); fond of the bottle
嗜酸乳杆菌	shi	jun	Lactobacillus acidophilus
嗜酸性球	shi	qiu	eosinophil granulocyte (type of white blood cell)
嗜酸性粒细胞	shi	bao	eosinophil (type of white blood cell)
嗝儿屁	ge	pi	erhua form of 嗝屁[ge2 pi4]
嗡嗡叫	weng	jiao	hum; drone; buzz (of insects)
嗡嗡声	weng	sheng	hum; drone; buzz
嗡嗡弹	weng	dan	buzzing bomb
嗡嗡祖拉	weng	la	vuvuzela (horn blown by sports fans)
嗤之以鼻	chi	bi	to snort disdainfully; to scoff at; to turn up one's nose
嗳气吞酸	ai	suan	(TCM) belching and acid reflux
嗳气呕逆	ai	ni	belching and retching counterflow (medical term)
嗳气腐臭	ai	chou	putrid belching (medical term)
嗳气酸腐	ai	fu	belching of sour putrid gas (medical term)
嗳腐吞酸	ai	suan	putrid belching with regurgitation of stomach acid (medical term)
嗵嗵鼓	tong	gu	tom-tom (drum)
嗷嗷待哺	ao	bu	cry piteously for food
嘁嘁喳喳	qi	cha	chattering
嘈杂声	cao	sheng	noise; din
嘉义县	jia	xian	Jiayi or Chiayi County in west Taiwan
嘉义市	jia	shi	Chiayi city in central Taiwan
嘉兴市	jia	shi	Jiaxing, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
嘉善县	jia	xian	Jiashan, a county in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
嘉士伯	jia	bo	Carlsberg
嘉定区	jia	qu	Jiading district of northwest Shanghai
嘉宝果	jia	guo	jaboticaba; Brazilian grape tree
嘉尔曼	jia	man	Carmen (name)
嘉峪关	jia	guan	Jiayu Pass in Gansu, at the western terminus of the Great Wall
嘉峪关城	jia	cheng	Jiayuguan fort in the Gansu corridor; Ming dynasty military fort, the western end of the Great Wall
嘉峪关市	jia	shi	Jiayuguan, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
嘉年华	jia	hua	(loanword) carnival
嘉柏隆里	jia	li	(Tw) Gaborone, capital of Botswana
嘉祥县	jia	xian	Jiaxiang, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
嘉禾县	jia	xian	Jiahe, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
嘉荫县	jia	xian	Jiayin, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
嘉陵区	jia	qu	Jialing, a district of Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
嘉陵江	jia	jiang	Jialing River in Sichuan (a tributary of the Yangtze)
嘉鱼县	jia	xian	Jiayu, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
嘉黎县	jia	xian	Lhari, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
嘎嘎小姐	ga	jie	Lady Gaga (1986-), US pop singer
嘎拉哈	ga	ha	(Manchu loanword) knucklebones; see 羊拐[yang2 guai3]
嘘寒问暖	xu	nuan	to enquire solicitously about sb's well-being (idiom); to pamper
嘟嘟哝哝	du	nong	to mumble in whispers; to mutter to oneself
嘟嘟车	du	che	(loanword) tuk-tuk (three-wheeler taxi)
嘴上无毛办事不牢	zui	lao	see 嘴上沒毛，辦事不牢|嘴上没毛，办事不牢[zui3 shang4 mei2 mao2 , ban4 shi4 bu4 lao2]
嘴上没毛办事不牢	zui	lao	a youth without facial hair cannot be relied upon (proverb)
嘴不严	zui	yan	to have a loose tongue
嘴啃泥	zui	ni	to fall flat on one's face
嘴巴子	zui	zi	slap
嘴快心直	zui	zhi	outspoken and frank (idiom)
嘴甜心苦	zui	ku	sweet mouth, bitter heart (idiom); insincere flattery
嘴皮子	zui	zi	lit. lips; fig. glib talk
嘴硬心软	zui	ruan	see 刀子嘴，豆腐心[dao1 zi5 zui3 , dou4 fu5 xin1]
嘶哑声	si	sheng	hoarse
嘶嘶声	si	sheng	hissing or sizzling sound
嘻皮笑脸	xi	lian	see 嬉皮笑臉|嬉皮笑脸[xi1 pi2 xiao4 lian3]
噢买嘎	o	ga	(loanword) oh my God!
噤声令	jin	ling	gag order
噤若寒蝉	jin	chan	to keep quiet out of fear (idiom)
器宇轩昂	qi	ang	variant of 氣宇軒昂|气宇轩昂[qi4 yu3 xuan1 ang2]
器官捐献者	qi	zhe	organ donor
器官移植	qi	zhi	organ transplant
器质性	qi	xing	(of medical disorders) organic
噪声污染	zao	ran	noise pollution
噪大苇莺	zao	ying	(bird species of China) clamorous reed warbler (Acrocephalus stentoreus)
噪音盒	zao	he	boombox; ghetto blaster
噬脐莫及	shi	ji	(lit.) one cannot bite one's own navel (idiom); (fig.) too late for regrets
噬菌体	shi	ti	bacteriophage; phage
噶举派	ga	pai	Geju (Tibetan: transmit word of Buddha) sect of Tibetan Buddhist
噶哈巫族	ga	zu	Kaxabu or Kahabu, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
噶啷啷	ga	lang	(onom.) hum and clatter
噶尔县	ga	xian	Gar, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
噶布伦	ga	lun	Tibetan government official
噶当派	ga	pai	Bkar-dgam-pa sect of Tibetan Buddhism
噶玛兰	ga	lan	Kavalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan; old name of Yilan 宜蘭|宜兰[Yi2 lan2] County, Taiwan; Kavalan, a brand of single malt whisky from Taiwan
噶玛兰族	ga	zu	Kavalan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
噼里啪啦	pi	la	(onom.) crackling of firecrackers; pitter-patter of rain; burst of applause
嚎啕大哭	hao	ku	(idiom) to wail; to bawl
嚣张气焰	xiao	yan	(idiom) overweening attitude; threatening manner
嚣张跋扈	xiao	hu	arrogant and despotic
嚼劲儿	jiao	r	chewiness
嚼舌头	jiao	tou	to gossip; to argue unnecessarily
嚼舌根	jiao	gen	to gossip; to argue unnecessarily
囊中取物	nang	wu	as easy as reaching for it from a bag (idiom); in the bag; (as good as) in one's possession
囊中羞涩	nang	se	to be embarrassingly short of money
囊空如洗	nang	xi	(idiom) penniless; broke
囊谦县	nang	xian	Nangqên, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
囚锢锋	qiu	feng	occluded front (meteorology)
四一二	si	er	12th April; refers to Chiang Kai-shek's coup of 12th April 1927 against the communists in Shanghai
四一二事变	si	bian	the coup of 12th Mar 1927, an attempt by Chiang Kai-shek to suppress the communists; called 反革命政變|反革命政变 or 慘案|惨案 in PRC literature
四一二反革命政变	si	bian	counterrevolutionary coup of 12th April 1927, Chiang Kai-shek's coup against the communists in Shanghai
四一二惨案	si	an	the massacre of 12th Mar 1927; the Shanghai coup of 12th Mar 1927 by Chiang Kai-shek against the communists
四下里	si	li	all around
四不像	si	xiang	common name for 麋鹿[mi2 lu4], Père David's deer (Elaphurus davidianus), which is said to resemble an amalgam of animals such as a cow, deer, donkey and horse; an odd mixture of disparate elements; hodgepodge
四世同堂	si	tang	Four Generations Under One Roof, novel by Lao She 老舍[Lao3 She3]
四两拨千斤	si	jin	(lit.) four ounces can move a thousand catties (idiom); (fig.) to achieve much with little effort
四个全面	si	mian	Four Comprehensives (political guidelines announced by President Xi Jinping, 2015)
四个现代化	si	hua	Deng Xiaoping's four modernizations practiced from the 1980s (possibly planned together with Zhou Enlai), namely: modernization of industry, agriculture, national defense and science and technology; abbr. to 四化[si4 hua4]
四人帮	si	bang	Gang of Four: Jiang Qing 江青[Jiang1 Qing1], Zhang Chunqiao 張春橋|张春桥[Zhang1 Chun1 qiao2], Yao Wenyuan 姚文元[Yao2 Wen2 yuan2], Wang Hongwen 王洪文[Wang2 Hong2 wen2], who served as scapegoats for the excesses of the cultural revolution
四仰八叉	si	cha	(idiom) sprawled out on one's back
四会市	si	shi	Sihui, a county-level city in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
四体不勤五谷不分	si	fen	never move your four limbs, can't distinguish the five crops (idiom); living as a parasite
四元数	si	shu	quaternion (math.)
四出文钱	si	qian	coin minted in the reign of Emperor Ling of Han 漢靈帝|汉灵帝[Han4 Ling2 Di4], with a square hole in the middle and four lines radiating out from each corner of the square (hence the name 四出文)
四分之一	si	yi	one-quarter
四分五裂	si	lie	(idiom) fragmented; scattered; in disarray; at sixes and sevens
四分位数	si	shu	quartile (statistics)
四分卫	si	wei	quarterback (QB) (American football)
四分历	si	li	"quarter remainder" calendar, the first calculated Chinese calendar, in use from the Warring States period until the early years of the Han dynasty
四分音符	si	fu	crotchet (music)
四则运算	si	suan	the four basic operations of arithmetic (addition, subtraction, multiplication and division)
四十二章经	si	jing	The Sutra in Forty-two Sections Spoken by the Buddha, the first Chinese Buddhist text, translated in 67 AD by Kasyapa-Matanga 迦葉摩騰|迦叶摩腾[Jia1 ye4 Mo2 teng2] and Gobharana 竺法蘭|竺法兰[Zhu2 fa3 lan2] (Dharmaraksha)
四县腔	si	qiang	Sixian dialect of Hakka Chinese
四叶草	si	cao	four-leaf clover
四号电池	si	chi	AAA battery (Tw); PRC equivalent: 七號電池|七号电池[qi1 hao4 dian4 chi2]
四合院	si	yuan	courtyard house with a fully enclosed courtyard (type of Chinese residence)
四国犬	si	quan	Shikoku (dog)
四圣谛	si	di	the Four Noble Truths (Buddhism); see also 四諦|四谛[si4 di4] and 苦集滅道|苦集灭道[ku3 ji2 mie4 dao4]
四壁萧然	si	ran	four bare walls
四声杜鹃	si	juan	(bird species of China) Indian cuckoo (Cuculus micropterus)
四大佛教名山	si	shan	Four Sacred Mountains of Buddhism, namely: Mt Wutai 五臺山|五台山 in Shanxi, Mt Emei 峨眉山 in Sichuan, Mt Jiuhua 九華山|九华山 in Anhui, Mt Potala 普陀山 in Zhejiang
四大发明	si	ming	the Four Great Inventions (papermaking, printing, the compass, and gunpowder, traditionally regarded as the four major inventions of ancient China)
四大名著	si	zhu	the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature, namely: A Dream of Red Mansions 紅樓夢|红楼梦[Hong2 lou2 Meng4], Romance of Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4], Water Margin 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4], Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
四大天王	si	wang	the four heavenly kings (Sanskrit vajra); the four guardians or warrior attendants of Buddha
四大皆空	si	kong	lit. the four elements are vanity (idiom); this world is an illusion
四大盆地	si	di	four great basin depressions of China, namely: Tarim 塔里木盆地 in south Xinjiang, Jungar 準葛爾盆地|准葛尔盆地 and Tsaidam or Qaidam 柴達木盆地|柴达木盆地 in north Xinjiang Sichuan 四川盆地
四大石窟	si	ku	the four great caves, namely: Longmen Grottoes 龍門石窟|龙门石窟[Long2 men2 Shi2 ku1] at Luoyang, Henan, Yungang Caves 雲岡石窟|云冈石窟[Yun2 gang1 Shi2 ku1] at Datong, Shanxi, Mogao Caves 莫高窟[Mo4 gao1 ku1] at Dunhuang, Gansu, and Mt Maiji Caves 麥積山石窟|麦积山石窟[Mai4 ji1 Shan1 Shi2 ku1] at Tianshui, Gansu
四大美女	si	nv	the four legendary beauties of ancient China, namely: Xishi 西施[Xi1 shi1], Wang Zhaojun 王昭君[Wang2 Zhao1 jun1], Diaochan 貂蟬|貂蝉[Diao1 Chan2] and Yang Yuhuan 楊玉環|杨玉环[Yang2 Yu4 huan2]
四大须生	si	sheng	Four great beards of Beijing opera, namely: Ma Lianliang 馬連良|马连良, Tan Fuying 譚富英|谭富英, Yang Baosen 楊寶森|杨宝森, Xi Xiaobo 奚嘯伯|奚啸伯
四头肌	si	ji	quadriceps muscle group; thigh muscles
四子王	si	wang	Siziwang banner or Dörvön-xüüxed khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
四子王旗	si	qi	Siziwang banner or Dörvön-xüüxed khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
四季如春	si	chun	four seasons like spring; favorable climate throughout the year
四季豆	si	dou	green bean; French bean; runner bean
四季豆腐	si	fu	four seasons beancurd
四小龙	si	long	Four Asian Tigers; East Asian Tigers; Four Little Dragons (East Asian economic powers: Taiwan, South Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong)
四川外国语大学	si	xue	Sichuan International Studies University (SISU)
四川大地震	si	zhen	Great Sichuan Earthquake (2008)
四川大学	si	xue	Sichuan University
四川山鹧鸪	si	gu	(bird species of China) Sichuan partridge (Arborophila rufipectus)
四川旋木雀	si	que	(bird species of China) Sichuan treecreeper (Certhia tianquanensis)
四川日报	si	bao	Sichuan Daily
四川林鸮	si	xiao	(bird species of China) Sichuan wood owl (Strix davidi)
四川柳莺	si	ying	(bird species of China) Sichuan leaf warbler (Phylloscopus forresti)
四川盆地	si	di	Sichuan basin
四川省	si	sheng	Sichuan Province, capital Chengdu 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4] (short name 川[Chuan1] or 蜀[Shu3])
四川雉鹑	si	chun	(bird species of China) buff-throated monal-partridge (Tetraophasis szechenyii)
四平八稳	si	wen	everything steady and stable (idiom); overcautious and unimaginary
四平市	si	shi	Siping, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
四库全书	si	shu	Siku Quanshu (collection of books compiled during Qing dynasty)
四强赛	si	sai	semifinals
四散奔逃	si	tao	to scatter in all directions
四方台	si	tai	see 四方臺區|四方台区[Si4 fang1 tai2 Qu1]
四方台区	si	qu	Sifangtai, a district of Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
四方帽	si	mao	see 方帽[fang1 mao4]
四方步	si	bu	a slow march
四方脸	si	lian	square-jawed face
四日市	si	shi	Yokkaichi (city in Japan)
四旬斋	si	zhai	Lent (Christian period of forty days before Easter)
四旬节	si	jie	First Sunday of Lent
四月份	si	fen	April
四氟化硅	si	gui	silicon tetrafluoride SiF4
四氟化铀	si	you	uranium tetrafluoride (UF4)
四氢大麻酚	si	fen	Tetrahydrocannabinol, THC
四氯乙烯	si	xi	tetrachloroethylene
四氯化碳	si	tan	carbon tetrachloride
四海为家	si	jia	to regard the four corners of the world all as home (idiom); to feel at home anywhere; to roam about unconstrained
四海之内皆兄弟	si	di	all men are brothers
四海升平	si	ping	(idiom) the whole world is at peace
四海飘零	si	ling	drifting aimlessly all over the place (idiom)
四清运动	si	dong	the Four Cleanups Movement (1963-66), which aimed to cleanse the politics, economy, organization and ideology of the Communist Party
四物汤	si	tang	four-substance decoction (si wu tang), tonic formula used in Chinese medicine
四环素	si	su	tetracycline
四目相对	si	dui	(of two people) to look into each other's eyes
四目相视	si	shi	see 四目相對|四目相对[si4 mu4 xiang1 dui4]
四目相觑	si	qu	see 四目相對|四目相对[si4 mu4 xiang1 dui4]
四眼田鸡	si	ji	four-eyes (facetious term for a person who wears glasses)
四碳糖	si	tang	tetrose (CH2O)4, monosaccharide with four carbon atoms
四级士官	si	guan	sergeant first class
四维空间	si	jian	four-dimensional space (math.)
四肢支撑式	si	shi	low plank (yoga pose)
四脚朝天	si	tian	four legs facing the sky (idiom); flat on one's back
四脚蛇	si	she	lizard
四舍五入	si	ru	(math.) to round up or down; to round off
四角号码	si	ma	four corner code (input method for Chinese characters)
四角形	si	xing	(geometry) quadrangle; quadrilateral
四角柱体	si	ti	cuboid; rectangular prism (math.)
四角裤	si	ku	boxer shorts
四轮定位	si	wei	wheel alignment (automobile maintenance)
四轮马车	si	che	chariot
四轮驱动	si	dong	four-wheel drive
四边形	si	xing	(geometry) quadrilateral
四通八达	si	da	roads open in all directions (idiom); accessible from all sides
四邻八舍	si	she	(idiom) the whole neighborhood
四部曲	si	qu	tetralogy
四重奏	si	zou	quartet (musical ensemble)
四门轿车	si	che	sedan (motor car)
四面体	si	ti	tetrahedron
四面八方	si	fang	(idiom) all directions; all around
四面楚歌	si	ge	lit. on all sides, the songs of Chu (idiom); fig. surrounded by enemies, isolated and without help
四项基本原则	si	ze	the Four Cardinal Principles enunciated by Deng Xiaoping 鄧小平|邓小平[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2] in 1979: to uphold the socialist road, the dictatorship of the proletariat, the leadership of the CCP, and Maoism and Marxism-Leninism
四驱车	si	che	four-by-four (vehicle); 4x4
回信地址	hui	zhi	return address
回光反照	hui	zhao	variant of 回光返照[hui2 guang1 fan3 zhao4]
回光返照	hui	zhao	final radiance of setting sun; fig. dying flash (of lucidity or activity, prior to demise)
回光镜	hui	jing	concave reflector (e.g. in spotlight)
回力球	hui	qiu	(sports) jai alai; cesta punta; ball used in this sport
回力镖	hui	biao	boomerang
回单儿	hui	r	erhua variant of 回單|回单[hui2 dan1]
回南天	hui	tian	weather phenomenon characterized by condensation of warm moist air on cool surfaces during the transition from winter to spring in Southern China
回合制	hui	zhi	turn-based (gaming)
回味无穷	hui	qiong	to have a rich aftertaste; (fig.) memorable; to linger in one's memory
回嗔作喜	hui	xi	to go from anger to happiness (idiom)
回回青	hui	qing	Mohammedan blue (a cobalt blue pigment imported from Persia, used as an underglaze on Chinese porcelain during the Ming dynasty)
回墨印	hui	yin	self-inking stamp
回声定位	hui	wei	echolocation
回天乏术	hui	shu	(idiom) nothing can be done to remedy the situation; beyond recovery
回天无力	hui	li	see 無力回天|无力回天[wu2 li4 hui2 tian1]
回头客	hui	ke	repeat customer
回头率	hui	lv	frequency with which people turn their heads to look; degree of attracting attention; percentage of repeat customers (catering, hospitality etc)
回头见	hui	jian	See you!; Bye!
回头路	hui	lu	the road back to where one came from
回娘家	hui	jia	(of a wife) to return to her parental home; (fig.) to return to one's old place, job, school etc
回家吃自己	hui	ji	(coll.) (Tw) to get sacked; to be fired
回归年	hui	nian	the solar year; the year defined as the period between successive equinoxes
回归热	hui	re	recurring fever
回归线	hui	xian	tropic; one of the two latitude lines, Tropic of Capricorn or Tropic of Cancer
回形针	hui	zhen	paper clip
回心转意	hui	yi	to change one's mind (idiom)
回忆录	hui	lu	memoir
回执单	hui	dan	receipt
回收站	hui	zhan	recycling center; waste materials collection depot; (computing) recycle bin
回教徒	hui	tu	Muslim
回旋余地	hui	di	room to maneuver; leeway; latitude
回旋加速器	hui	qi	(physics) cyclotron
回旋处	hui	chu	traffic circle; rotary; roundabout
回旋曲	hui	qu	rondo
回旋镖	hui	biao	boomerang
回族人	hui	ren	Hui person; member of Hui ethnic group living across China
回民区	hui	qu	Huimin, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
回禄之灾	hui	zai	(idiom) fire disaster; conflagration
回纹针	hui	zhen	paper clip
回老家	hui	jia	to go back to one's roots; to return to one's native place; by ext. to join one's ancestors (i.e. to die)
回肠荡气	hui	qi	soul-stirring (of drama, poem or artwork); heart-rending; deeply moving
回良玉	hui	yu	Hui Liangyu (1944-) PRC Hui national career politician from Guilin, background in economics, politburo member 2002-2012, deputy chair of State Council 2003-2013
回调函数	hui	shu	callback function (computing)
回车符	hui	fu	(computing) "carriage return" character (ASCII code 13)
回车键	hui	jian	(computing) enter key; return key (on a keyboard)
回转寿司	hui	si	conveyor belt sushi (restaurant)
回过头来	hui	lai	to turn one's head; to turn around; (fig.) to return (to a previous point); to come back (to what one was saying before); (fig.) to look back (in time); to reflect on the past
回邮信封	hui	feng	self-addressed stamped envelope (SASE)
回铃音	hui	yin	ringback tone
回锅油	hui	you	reused cooking oil
回锅肉	hui	rou	twice-cooked pork
回顾历史	hui	shi	to look back at history
回顾展	hui	zhan	retrospective (exhibition)
回马枪	hui	qiang	sudden thrust (that catches the opponent off guard)
囟脑门	xin	men	fontanel (gap between the bones of an infant's skull)
因人成事	yin	shi	to get things done relying on others (idiom); with a little help from his friends
因人而异	yin	yi	varying from person to person (idiom); different for each individual
因公殉职	yin	zhi	to die in the course of performing one's duty (idiom)
因利乘便	yin	bian	(idiom) to rely on the most favorable method
因努伊特	yin	te	Inuit
因势利导	yin	dao	to take advantage of the new situation (idiom); to make the best of new opportunities
因变数	yin	shu	(Tw) (math.) dependent variable
因变量	yin	liang	dependent variable
因吹斯汀	yin	ting	(loanword) interesting
因噎废食	yin	shi	lit. not eating for fear of choking (idiom); fig. to cut off one's nose to spite one's face; to avoid sth essential because of a slight risk
因地制宜	yin	yi	(idiom) to use methods in line with local circumstances
因如此	yin	ci	because of this
因孕而婚	yin	hun	to marry because of an unplanned pregnancy
因小失大	yin	da	to save a little only to lose a lot (idiom)
因式分解	yin	jie	factorization
因循守旧	yin	jiu	(idiom) to continue in the same old rut; diehard conservative attitudes
因斯布鲁克	yin	ke	Innsbruck, city in Austria
因时制宜	yin	yi	(idiom) to use methods appropriate to the current situation
因材施教	yin	jiao	(idiom) to teach in accordance with the student's aptitude; to tailor instruction to the individual student
因果报应	yin	ying	(Buddhism) retribution; karma
因爱成恨	yin	hen	hatred caused by love (idiom); to grow to hate someone because of unrequited love for that person
因父之名	yin	ming	in the Name of the Father (in Christian worship)
因特网	yin	wang	Internet
因祸得福	yin	fu	to have some good come out of a bad situation (idiom); a blessing in disguise
因纽特	yin	te	Inuit
因陀罗	yin	luo	Indra (a Hindu deity)
因陋就简	yin	jian	crude but simple methods (idiom); use whatever methods you can; to do things simply and thriftily; It's not pretty but it works.
团体冠军	tuan	jun	group championship
团体行	tuan	xing	group travel
团团转	tuan	zhuan	to go round and round; running around in circles; fig. frantically busy
团拜会	tuan	hui	New Year reception
团结一心	tuan	xin	to unite as one
团结一致	tuan	zhi	see 團結一心|团结一心[tuan2 jie2 yi1 xin1]
团结就是力量	tuan	liang	unity is strength (revolutionary slogan and popular song of 1943)
团结工会	tuan	hui	Solidarity (Polish worker's union)
团队精神	tuan	shen	group mentality; collectivism; solidarity
团风县	tuan	xian	Tuanfeng, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
囤积居奇	tun	qi	to hoard and profiteer; to speculate
囫囵吞下	hu	xia	to swallow whole; (fig.) to swallow (lies etc)
囫囵吞枣	hu	zao	to swallow in one gulp (idiom); (fig.) to accept without thinking; to lap up
园游会	yuan	hui	(Tw) garden party; fete (held in a garden or park); carnival; fair
困兽犹斗	kun	dou	a cornered beast will still fight (idiom); to fight like an animal at bay
困惑不解	kun	jie	to feel perplexed
困难在于	kun	yu	the problem is...
围产期	wei	qi	perinatal period
围场县	wei	xian	see 圍場滿族蒙古族自治縣|围场满族蒙古族自治县[Wei2 chang3 Man3 zu2 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
围城打援	wei	yuan	to besiege and strike the relief force (idiom); strategy of surrounding a unit to entice the enemy to reinforce, then striking the new troops
围护结构	wei	gou	building envelope
围术期	wei	qi	perioperative period
围魏救赵	wei	zhao	lit. to besiege 魏[Wei4] and rescue 趙|赵[Zhao4] (idiom); fig. to relieve a besieged ally by attacking the home base of the besiegers
固体物理	gu	li	solid state physics
固体胶	gu	jiao	glue stick
固体食物	gu	wu	solid foods; solids
固原市	gu	shi	Guyuan, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
固始县	gu	xian	Gushi, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
固安县	gu	xian	Gu'an, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
固定型思维	gu	wei	fixed mindset (as opposed to growth mindset)
固定收入	gu	ru	fixed income
固定点	gu	dian	fixed point; calibration point
固定电话	gu	hua	fixed-line telephone; landline telephone
固定词组	gu	zu	set phrase
固定资产	gu	chan	fixed assets
固形物	gu	wu	solid particles in liquid
固形量	gu	liang	(Tw) (on packaging) drained weight
固态硬盘	gu	pan	(computing) solid-state drive (SSD)
固执己见	gu	jian	to persist in one's views
固有名词	gu	ci	proper noun
固有词	gu	ci	native words (i.e. not derived from Chinese, in Korean and Japanese etc)
固网电信	gu	xin	landline (fixed-line) telecommunications
固若金汤	gu	tang	(lit.) secure as a city protected by a wall of metal and a moat of boiling water (idiom); (fig.) well fortified; invulnerable to attack
固镇县	gu	xian	Guzhen, a county in Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
固阳县	gu	xian	Guyang, a county in Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
国中之国	guo	guo	state within a state
国事访问	guo	wen	state visit
国产化	guo	hua	to localize (production); localization
国会大厦	guo	sha	capitol
国会山	guo	shan	Capitol Hill, Washington, D.C.
国会议员	guo	yuan	member of congress; congressman
国会议长	guo	zhang	chair (or president, speaker etc) of national congress
国侦局	guo	ju	abbr. for 美國國家偵察局|美国国家侦察局
国共两党	guo	dang	Guomindang 國民黨|国民党[Guo2 min2 dang3] and Chinese Communist Party 共產黨|共产党[Gong4 chan3 dang3]
国共内战	guo	zhan	Chinese Civil War (1927–1949)
国共合作	guo	zuo	United Front (either of the two alliances between the Guomindang and the Communist Party, 1923-1927 and 1937-1945)
国内外	guo	wai	domestic and international; at home and abroad
国内安全保卫局	guo	ju	Domestic Security Protection Bureau, the department of the Ministry of Public Security responsible for political security, monitoring dissidents, religious groups and activities deemed a threat to state stability
国内战争	guo	zheng	civil war; internal struggle
国内生产总值	guo	zhi	gross domestic product (GDP)
国内生产毛额	guo	e	(Tw) gross domestic product; GDP
国内线	guo	xian	domestic flight; internal line (air, train, ferry etc)
国务卿	guo	qing	Secretary of State
国务委员	guo	yuan	member of the State Council (in China)
国务总理	guo	li	minister of state (old usage)
国务次卿	guo	qing	Under Secretary of State
国务长官	guo	guan	secretary of state (esp. historical, or Japanese or Korean usage)
国务院	guo	yuan	(PRC) State Council; (USA) State Department
国务院新闻办公室	guo	shi	State Council Information Office of the People's Republic of China
国势日衰	guo	shuai	national decline
国台办	guo	ban	Taiwan Affairs Office of the State Council (abbr. for 國務院台灣事務辦公室|国务院台湾事务办公室[Guo2 wu4 yuan4 Tai2 wan1 Shi4 wu4 Ban4 gong1 shi4])
国土安全	guo	quan	homeland security
国土安全局	guo	ju	Department of Homeland Security (DHS)
国土安全部	guo	bu	(US) Department of Homeland Security
国土资源部	guo	bu	Ministry of Land and Resources (MLR), formed in 1998
国外市场	guo	chang	foreign market
国大党	guo	dang	Indian Congress party
国子监	guo	jian	Guozijian, the highest educational administrative body in imperial China, in some dynasties also functioning as the highest institution of academic research and learning (Imperial College, aka Imperial Academy)
国字脸	guo	lian	square face
国安局	guo	ju	abbr. for 國家安全局|国家安全局[Guo2 jia1 An1 quan2 ju2]
国安部	guo	bu	PRC Ministry of State Security; abbr. for 國家安全部|国家安全部[Guo2 jia1 an1 quan2 bu4]
国定假日	guo	ri	national holiday
国家一级保护	guo	hu	Grade One State protected (species)
国家主义	guo	yi	nationalism; statism
国家主席	guo	xi	president (title of the head of state of China and several other nations)
国家代码	guo	ma	country code
国家信访局	guo	ju	National Public Complaints and Proposals Administration, national ombudsman office of the PRC
国家元首	guo	shou	head of state
国家公园	guo	yuan	national park
国家兴亡匹夫有责	guo	ze	The rise and fall of the nation concerns everyone (idiom). Everyone bears responsibility for the prosperity of society.
国家军品贸易局	guo	ju	State Bureau of Military Products Trade (SBMPT)
国家医疗服务体系	guo	xi	National Health Service (UK)
国家发展改革委	guo	wei	PRC National Development and Reform Commission
国家发展计划委员会	guo	hui	PRC State Development and Planning Committee, set up 1998 to replace State Planning Committee 國家計劃委員會|国家计划委员会, replaced in 2003 by National Development and Reform Commission 國家發展和改革委員會|国家发展和改革委员会
国家图书馆	guo	guan	national library
国家地震局	guo	ju	China Earthquake Administration (CEA); State Seismological Bureau
国家外汇管理局	guo	ju	State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE)
国家安全	guo	quan	national security
国家安全局	guo	ju	National Security Bureau (NSB) (Tw); National Security Agency (NSA) (USA)
国家安全部	guo	bu	PRC Ministry of State Security
国家广播电视总局	guo	ju	National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA), formerly SAPPRFT, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television (2013-2018) and SARFT, the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television (prior to 2013)
国家开发银行	guo	hang	China Development Bank
国家政策	guo	ce	state policy
国家文物委员会	guo	hui	National Committee of Cultural Heritage
国家文物局	guo	ju	PRC State Administration of Cultural Heritage (SACH)
国家文物鉴定委员会	guo	hui	National Commission for the Identification of Cultural Heritage
国家旅游度假区	guo	qu	national tourist resort (PRC official designation)
国家标准中文交换码	guo	ma	CNS 11643, Chinese character coding adopted in Taiwan, 1986-1992
国家标准码	guo	ma	Guo Biao or GB, the standard PRC encoding, abbr. 國標碼|国标码
国家汉办	guo	ban	Office of Chinese Language Council International (known colloquially as "Hanban"), an organ of the PRC government which develops Chinese language and culture teaching resources worldwide, and has established Confucius Institutes 孔子學院|孔子学院[Kong3 zi3 Xue2 yuan4] internationally; abbr. to 漢辦|汉办[Han4 ban4]
国家海洋局	guo	ju	State Oceanic Administration (PRC)
国家火山公园	guo	yuan	Volcanoes National Park, Hawaii
国家环保总局	guo	ju	(PRC) State Environmental Protection Administration (SEPA), former incarnation (until 2008) of 環境保護部|环境保护部[Huan2 jing4 Bao3 hu4 bu4]
国家电力监管委员会	guo	hui	State Electricity Regulatory Commission (PRC)
国家电网公司	guo	si	State Grid Corporation of China
国家监委	guo	wei	National Supervision Commission (abbr. for 國家監察委員會|国家监察委员会[Guo2 jia1 Jian1 cha2 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
国家监察委员会	guo	hui	National Supervision Commission of the PRC, anti-corruption agency established in 2018
国家社会主义	guo	yi	national socialism; Nazism
国家级	guo	ji	(administrative) national-level
国家级旅游度假区	guo	qu	national-level tourist resort
国家统计局	guo	ju	(China) National Bureau of Statistics (NBS)
国家航天局	guo	ju	China National Space Administration (CNSA)
国家航空公司	guo	si	flag carrier
国家计划委员会	guo	hui	PRC State Planning Committee, set up in 1952, replaced in 1998 by State Development and Planning Committee 國家發展計劃委員會|国家发展计划委员会[Guo2 jia1 Fa1 zhan3 Ji4 hua4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4] then in 2003 by National Development and Reform Commission 國家發展和改革委員會|国家发展和改革委员会[Guo2 jia1 Fa1 zhan3 he2 Gai3 ge2 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
国家计委	guo	wei	PRC State Planning Committee, abbr. for 國家計劃委員會|国家计划委员会[Guo2 jia1 Ji4 hua4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
国家重点学科	guo	ke	National Key Disciplines (disciplines recognized as important and supported by PRC central government, including medicine, science, chemistry, engineering, commerce and law)
国家重点实验室	guo	shi	State Key Laboratories (university laboratories in PRC supported by the central government)
国家队	guo	dui	national team
国宾馆	guo	guan	state guesthouse
国富兵强	guo	qiang	prosperous country with military might
国富论	guo	lun	The Wealth of Nations (1776) by Adam Smith 亞當·斯密|亚当·斯密[Ya4 dang1 · Si1 mi4]
国庆日	guo	ri	national day
国庆节	guo	jie	PRC National Day (October 1st)
国库券	guo	quan	treasury bond
国弱民穷	guo	qiong	the country weakened and the people empoverished (idiom)
国徽法	guo	fa	Law on the National Emblem of the PRC, promulgated in 1991
国情咨文	guo	wen	speech delivered by a head of state to the legislature (e.g. (USA) State of the Union Address, (Russia) Address to the Federal Assembly etc)
国新办	guo	ban	State Council Information Office of the People's Republic of China, abbr. for 國務院新聞辦公室|国务院新闻办公室[Guo2 wu4 yuan4 Xin1 wen2 Ban4 gong1 shi4]
国有企业	guo	ye	state-owned enterprise
国有公司	guo	si	state enterprise
国有化	guo	hua	nationalization
国标码	guo	ma	Guo Biao or GB, the standard PRC encoding, abbr. for 國家標準碼|国家标准码
国标舞	guo	wu	international standard ballroom dancing
国槐树	guo	shu	locust tree (Sophora japonica)
国民中学	guo	xue	junior high school (Tw); abbr. to 國中|国中[guo2 zhong1]
国民党	guo	dang	Guomindang or Kuomintang (KMT); Nationalist Party
国民小学	guo	xue	elementary school (Tw)
国民年金	guo	jin	(Tw) National Pension, a social security scheme in Taiwan
国民年金保险	guo	xian	(Tw) National Pension Insurance, a social security scheme in Taiwan
国民待遇	guo	yu	(law) national treatment – the principle that foreigners or foreign goods, services and companies are accorded the same treatment as nationals or domestic goods, services and companies within the host country
国民收入	guo	ru	measures of national income and output
国民政府	guo	fu	Nationalist government (the government of the Republic of China 1925–1948)
国民生产总值	guo	zhi	gross national product (GNP)
国民生产毛额	guo	e	(Tw) gross national product; GNP
国民经济	guo	ji	national economy
国民警卫队	guo	dui	National Guard (United States)
国民议会	guo	hui	Assemblée nationale (French lower chamber); national parliament
国民革命军	guo	jun	National Revolutionary Army
国泰民安	guo	an	the country prospers, the people at peace (idiom); peace and prosperity
国泰航空	guo	kong	Cathay Pacific, Hong Kong-based airline
国界线	guo	xian	national border
国破家亡	guo	wang	the country ruined and the people starving (idiom)
国税局	guo	ju	(Tw) National Taxation Bureau, local branch of the Ministry of Finance 財政部|财政部[Cai2 zheng4 bu4]
国立台北科技大学	guo	xue	National Taipei University of Technology
国立西南联合大学	guo	xue	National Southwest Combined University (Peking, Tsinghua and Nankai Universities in exile in Kunming 1937-1945)
国美电器	guo	qi	GOME Electrical Appliances (founded in Beijing, 1987)
国色天香	guo	xiang	national grace, divine fragrance (idiom); an outstanding beauty
国营企业	guo	ye	state-operated enterprise
国计民生	guo	sheng	(idiom) national economy and people's livelihood
国语注音符号第一式	guo	shi	Mandarin Phonetic Symbols 1 (official name of the phonetic system of writing Chinese used in Taiwan); Bopomofo; abbr. to 注音一式[zhu4 yin1 yi1 shi4]
国语罗马字	guo	zi	Gwoyeu Romatzyh, a romanization system for Chinese devised by Y.R. Chao and others in 1925-26
国资委	guo	wei	State-owned Assets Supervision and Administration Commission (SASAC) (abbr. for 國有資產監督管理委員會|国有资产监督管理委员会[Guo2 you3 Zi1 chan3 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
国防利益	guo	yi	(national) defense interests
国防工业	guo	ye	defense industry
国防现代化	guo	hua	modernization of national defense, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
国防色	guo	se	(Tw) khaki; military camouflage colors
国防语言学院	guo	yuan	US Defense Language Institute (founded 1941)
国防部	guo	bu	Defense Department; Ministry of National Defense
国防部长	guo	zhang	Defense secretary; Defense Minister
国防预算	guo	suan	defense budget
国际主义	guo	yi	internationalism
国际互联网络	guo	luo	Internet
国际人权标准	guo	zhun	international human rights norms
国际体操联合会	guo	hui	Fédération Internationale de Gymnastique
国际儿童节	guo	jie	International Children's Day (June 1)
国际先驱论坛报	guo	bao	International Herald Tribune
国际公认	guo	ren	internationally recognized
国际共产主义运动	guo	dong	Comintern; the international communist movement
国际关系	guo	xi	international relations
国际关系学院	guo	yuan	University of International Relations, Beijing, established in 1949
国际刑事警察组织	guo	zhi	International Criminal Police Organization (Interpol)
国际刑警组织	guo	zhi	Interpol (International Criminal Police Organization)
国际劳动节	guo	jie	May Day; International Labor Day (May 1)
国际劳工组织	guo	zhi	International Labor Organization
国际化	guo	hua	to internationalize; internationalization
国际医疗中心	guo	xin	International Medical Center
国际协会	guo	hui	international association
国际单位	guo	wei	international unit
国际单位制	guo	zhi	International System of Units
国际原子能机构	guo	gou	International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA)
国际和平基金会	guo	hui	international peace foundation
国际商业机器	guo	qi	International Business Machines; IBM
国际商会	guo	hui	International Chamber of Commerce (ICC)
国际外交	guo	jiao	foreign policy
国际大赦	guo	she	Amnesty International
国际奥委会	guo	hui	International Olympic Committee (IOC)
国际奥林匹克委员会	guo	hui	International Olympic Committee
国际妇女节	guo	jie	International Women's Day (March 8)
国际媒体	guo	ti	the international media
国际性	guo	xing	international; internationalism
国际战争罪法庭	guo	ting	International war crimes tribunal
国际收支	guo	zhi	balance of payments
国际数学联盟	guo	meng	International Mathematical Union
国际文传电讯社	guo	she	Interfax, Russian non-governmental news agency
国际文传通讯社	guo	she	Interfax News Agency
国际日期变更线	guo	xian	international date line
国际机场	guo	chang	international airport
国际标准化组织	guo	zhi	International Organization for Standardization (ISO)
国际棋联	guo	lian	International Chess Federation
国际歌	guo	ge	The Internationale
国际民航组织	guo	zhi	International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO)
国际民间组织	guo	zhi	international humanitarian organization
国际法	guo	fa	international law
国际法庭	guo	ting	International Court of Justice in The Hague
国际法院	guo	yuan	International Court of Justice
国际海事组织	guo	zhi	International Maritime Organization
国际清算银行	guo	hang	Bank for International Settlements
国际特赦	guo	she	Amnesty International
国际特赦组织	guo	zhi	Amnesty International
国际田径联合会	guo	hui	International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF); abbr. to 國際田聯|国际田联[Guo2 ji4 Tian2 Lian2]
国际田联	guo	lian	International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF); abbr. for 國際田徑聯合會|国际田径联合会[Guo2 ji4 Tian2 jing4 Lian2 he2 hui4]
国际电信联盟	guo	meng	International Telecommunications Union; ITU
国际电话	guo	hua	international call
国际社会	guo	hui	the international community
国际私法	guo	fa	conflict of laws
国际空间站	guo	zhan	International Space Station
国际笔会	guo	hui	International PEN
国际米兰	guo	lan	FC Internazionale Milano (football club); abbr. for 國際米蘭足球俱樂部|国际米兰足球俱乐部[Guo2 ji4 Mi3 lan2 Zu2 qiu2 Ju4 le4 bu4]
国际米兰足球俱乐部	guo	bu	FC Internazionale Milano (football club)
国际米兰队	guo	dui	FC Internazionale Milano (football club); abbr. for 國際米蘭足球俱樂部|国际米兰足球俱乐部[Guo2 ji4 Mi3 lan2 Zu2 qiu2 Ju4 le4 bu4]
国际级	guo	ji	(at an) international level
国际网络	guo	luo	global network; Internet
国际羽毛球联合会	guo	hui	International Badminton Federation
国际联盟	guo	meng	League of Nations (1920-1946), based in Geneva, precursor of the UN
国际肿瘤研究机构	guo	gou	International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC)
国际航空联合会	guo	hui	Fédération Aéronautique Internationale (FAI), world body of gliding and aeronautic sports
国际航空运输协会	guo	hui	International Air Transport Association (IATA)
国际象棋	guo	qi	chess; CL:副[fu4]
国际货币基金	guo	jin	International Monetary Fund (IMF)
国际货币基金组织	guo	zhi	International Monetary Fund (IMF)
国际货运代理	guo	li	international transport agency
国际贸易	guo	yi	international trade
国际足球联合会	guo	hui	FIFA; International Federation of Association Football
国际足联	guo	lian	abbr. for 國際足球聯合會|国际足球联合会, FIFA, international federation of football associations
国际跳棋	guo	qi	checkers (Western board game)
国际金融公司	guo	si	International Finance Corporation
国际音标	guo	biao	international phonetic alphabet
图书管理员	tu	yuan	librarian
图书馆	tu	guan	library; CL:家[jia1],個|个[ge4]
图书馆员	tu	yuan	librarian
图们市	tu	shi	Tumen, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
图们江	tu	jiang	Tumen river in Jilin province 吉林省, forming the eastern border between China and North Korea
图像分割	tu	ge	image segmentation (computer vision)
图像处理	tu	li	image processing
图像用户介面	tu	mian	graphical user interface; GUI
图像识别	tu	bie	image classification (computer vision)
图卢兹	tu	zi	Toulouse (city in France)
图卢斯	tu	si	Toulouse (France)
图坦卡蒙	tu	meng	Tutankhamen, king of ancient Egypt 1333-1323 BC
图坦卡门	tu	men	Tutankhamen, king of ancient Egypt 1333-1323 BC
图尔库	tu	ku	Turku (city in Finland)
图形卡	tu	ka	graphics card
图形处理单元	tu	yuan	(computing) graphics processing unit (GPU)
图形处理器	tu	qi	(computing) graphics processing unit (GPU)
图形用户界面	tu	mian	graphical user interface (GUI)
图形界面	tu	mian	Graphical User Interface (GUI) (computing)
图木舒克	tu	ke	Tumxuk shehiri (Tumshuq city) or Túmùshūkè subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
图木舒克市	tu	shi	Tumxuk shehiri (Tumshuq city) or Túmùshūkè subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
图林根	tu	gen	Thuringia (state in Germany)
图样图森破	tu	po	(Internet slang) to have a simplistic view of sth (transcription of "too young, too simple" – English words spoken by Jiang Zemin 江澤民|江泽民[Jiang1 Ze2 min2] in chastizing Hong Kong reporters in 2000)
图波列夫	tu	fu	Tupolev, Russian plane maker
图灵奖	tu	jiang	Turing Award
图灵机	tu	ji	(math.) Turing machine
图片报	tu	bao	Bild-Zeitung
图瓦卢	tu	lu	Tuvalu
图穷匕见	tu	xian	(lit.) the assassin's dagger, concealed in a map scroll, is suddenly revealed when the map is unrolled (referring to the attempted assassination of Ying Zheng 嬴政[Ying2 Zheng4] by Jing Ke 荊軻|荆轲[Jing1 Ke1] in 227 BC) (idiom); (fig.) malicious intent suddenly becomes apparent
图穷匕首见	tu	xian	see 圖窮匕見|图穷匕见[tu2 qiong2 bi3 xian4]
图西族	tu	zu	Tutsi, an ethnic group in Rwanda and Burundi
图解说明	tu	ming	explanatory diagram
图财害命	tu	ming	see 謀財害命|谋财害命[mou2 cai2 hai4 ming4]
图门江	tu	jiang	variant of 圖們江|图们江[Tu2 men2 jiang1]
图阿雷格	tu	ge	Tuareg (nomadic people of the Sahara)
图雷特氏综合症	tu	zheng	Tourette syndrome
圆函数	yuan	shu	circular function; trigonometric function
圆凿方枘	yuan	rui	see 方枘圓鑿|方枘圆凿[fang1 rui4 yuan2 zao2]
圆口纲脊椎动物	yuan	wu	cyclostome (marine biology)
圆周率	yuan	lv	(math.) the ratio of the circumference of a circle to its diameter (π)
圆屋顶	yuan	ding	dome
圆形剧场	yuan	chang	amphitheater
圆形木材	yuan	cai	log
圆括号	yuan	hao	parentheses; round brackets ( )
圆明园	yuan	yuan	Yuanmingyuan, the Old Summer Palace, destroyed by the British and French army in 1860
圆柱体	yuan	ti	cylinder (geometry)
圆柱形	yuan	xing	cylindrical
圆桌会议	yuan	yi	round table conference
圆滑线	yuan	xian	slur (music)
圆滚滚	yuan	gun	plump
圆珠笔	yuan	bi	ballpoint pen; CL:支[zhi1],枝[zhi1]
圆白菜	yuan	cai	round white cabbage (i.e. Western cabbage)
圆腹鲱	yuan	fei	round herring
圆舞曲	yuan	qu	waltz
圆规座	yuan	zuo	Circinus (constellation)
圆轨道	yuan	dao	circular orbit (in astronomy and in astronautics)
圆锥体	yuan	ti	cone
圆锥形	yuan	xing	conical; coniform
圆锥曲线	yuan	xian	conic section
圆锥状	yuan	zhuang	conical
圆面饼	yuan	bing	round flat bread; pita bread
圆鼓鼓	yuan	gu	round and bulging; rotund; protruding
圈内人	quan	ren	insider
圈圈叉叉	quan	cha	tic-tac-toe
圈圈点点	quan	dian	annotations made in a book; fig. remarks and comments; to have an opinion on everything
圈地运动	quan	dong	Enclosure Movement
圈状物	quan	wu	hoop
圈票处	quan	chu	(Tw) voting booth
土到不行	tu	xing	old-fashioned; extremely kitsch
土力工程	tu	cheng	geotechnical engineering
土包子	tu	zi	country bumpkin; boor; unsophisticated country person (humble, applied to oneself)
土卫二	tu	er	Enceladus (moon of Saturn), aka Saturn II
土卫六	tu	liu	Titan (moon of Saturn), aka Saturn VI
土味情话	tu	hua	cheesy pick-up lines
土地公	tu	gong	Tudi Gong, the local tutelary god (in Chinese folk religion)
土地利用规划	tu	hua	land use plan (official P.R.C. government term)
土地改革	tu	ge	land reform
土地神	tu	shen	local tutelary god (in Chinese folk religion) (same as 土地公|土地公[Tu3 di4 Gong1])
土地资源	tu	yuan	land resources
土坎儿	tu	r	erhua variant of 土坎[tu3 kan3]
土坷垃	tu	la	(dialect) clod of earth
土城区	tu	qu	Tucheng, a district of New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
土壤学	tu	xue	pedology (soil study)
土头土脑	tu	nao	rustic; uncouth; unsophisticated
土家族	tu	zu	Tujia ethnic group
土崩瓦解	tu	jie	to collapse; to fall apart
土库曼	tu	man	Turkmen; (Tw, HK) Turkmenistan
土库曼人	tu	ren	Turkmen (person)
土库曼斯坦	tu	tan	Turkmenistan
土得掉渣	tu	zha	(coll.) rustic; uncouth
土拉弗氏菌	tu	jun	Francisella tularensis
土拨鼠	tu	shu	(zoology) marmot (in the US, esp. groundhog or woodchuck)
土政策	tu	ce	local policy; regional regulations
土方子	tu	zi	(TCM) folk remedy
土方工程	tu	cheng	earthwork
土曜日	tu	ri	Saturday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
土木工程	tu	cheng	civil engineering
土木形骸	tu	hai	earth and wood framework (idiom); plain and undecorated body
土木身	tu	shen	one's body as wood and earth; undecorated; unvarnished (truth)
土洋并举	tu	ju	combining native and foreign methods
土洋结合	tu	he	combining native and foreign methods (idiom); sophisticated and many-sided
土牛木马	tu	ma	clay ox, wooden horse (idiom); shape without substance; worthless object
土特产	tu	chan	local specialty
土生土长	tu	zhang	(idiom) (of people) born and raised in the locality; (of art forms, political parties, enterprises, products etc) developed locally from the outset; wholly indigenous
土皇帝	tu	di	local tyrant
土石方	tu	fang	excavated soil and rock; construction spoil
土石流	tu	liu	(Tw) debris flow; mudslide
土老帽	tu	mao	hillbilly; yokel; redneck
土耳其	tu	qi	Turkey
土耳其人	tu	ren	a Turk; Turkish person
土耳其旋转烤肉	tu	rou	Turkish döner kebab
土耳其玉	tu	yu	turquoise (gemstone) (loanword)
土耳其石	tu	shi	(mineralogy) (loanword) turquoise
土耳其语	tu	yu	Turkish (language)
土耳其软糖	tu	tang	Turkish delight; Lokum
土茴香	tu	xiang	dill seed
土著人	tu	ren	indigenous person; aboriginal
土谷祠	tu	ci	temple dedicated to the local tutelary god 土地神[tu3 di4 shen2] and the god of cereals
土豆丝	tu	si	julienned potato
土豆泥	tu	ni	mashed potato
土豆网	tu	wang	Tudou, a Chinese video-sharing website
土豪劣绅	tu	shen	local bosses, shady gentry (idiom); dominant local mafia
土财主	tu	zhu	local wealthy landlord; country money-bags; rich provincial
土里土气	tu	qi	unsophisticated; rustic; uncouth
土阶茅屋	tu	wu	lit. earthen steps and a small cottage; frugal living conditions (idiom)
土阶茅茨	tu	ci	lit. earthen steps and a thatched hut; frugal living conditions (idiom)
土鲮鱼	tu	yu	see 鯪|鲮[ling2]
土默特右旗	tu	qi	Tumed right banner, Mongolian Tümed baruun khoshuu, in Baotou 包頭|包头[Bao1 tou2], Inner Mongolia
土默特左旗	tu	qi	Tumed left banner, Mongolian Tümed züün khoshuu, in Hohhot 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
圣乔治	sheng	zhi	St George
圣伯多禄大殿	sheng	dian	St Peter's Basilica, Vatican City
圣但尼	sheng	ni	St Denis or St Dennis
圣体节	sheng	jie	Corpus Christi (Catholic festival on second Thursday after Whit Sunday)
圣体血	sheng	xue	the body and blood of Christ; Holy communion
圣何塞	sheng	sai	San Jose
圣佛明节	sheng	jie	Fiesta de Saint Fermin, festival held annually in Pamplona, Spain
圣保罗	sheng	luo	St Paul; São Paulo, city in Brazil
圣克鲁斯	sheng	si	Santa Cruz
圣克鲁斯岛	sheng	dao	Santa Cruz Island, off the California coast
圣凯瑟琳	sheng	lin	Saint Catherine
圣劳伦斯河	sheng	he	St Lawrence River, Canada
圣卢西亚	sheng	ya	Saint Lucia
圣卢西亚岛	sheng	dao	Saint Lucia
圣哈辛托	sheng	tuo	San Jacinto
圣哉经	sheng	jing	Sanctus (section of Catholic mass)
圣地亚哥	sheng	ge	Santiago, capital of Chile; San Diego, California
圣地牙哥	sheng	ge	(Tw) San Diego, California; Santiago, capital of Chile
圣基茨和尼维斯	sheng	si	Saint Kitts and Nevis
圣塔伦	sheng	lun	Santarém (Portugal); Santarém (Brazil)
圣多明各	sheng	ge	Santo Domingo, capital of the Dominican Republic
圣多明哥	sheng	ge	(Tw) Santo Domingo, capital of Dominican Republic
圣多美	sheng	mei	Sao Tome, capital of Sao Tome and Principe
圣多美和普林西比	sheng	bi	São Tomé and Príncipe
圣大非	sheng	fei	Santa Fe
圣奥古斯丁	sheng	ding	St Augustine; Aurelius Augustinus (354-430), theologian and Christian philosopher; Sankt Augustin, suburb of Beuel, Bonn, Germany
圣女果	sheng	guo	cherry tomato
圣女贞德	sheng	de	Joan of Arc (1412-1431), French heroine and liberator, executed as a witch by the Burgundians and English
圣安东尼奥	sheng	ao	San Antonio, Texas
圣安地列斯断层	sheng	ceng	San Andreas Fault, California; also written 聖安德列斯斷層|圣安德列斯断层
圣安多尼堂区	sheng	qu	St Anthony Parish (Macau); Freguesia de Santo António
圣安德列斯断层	sheng	ceng	San Andreas Fault, California
圣安德鲁	sheng	lu	St Andrew
圣帕特里克	sheng	ke	Saint Patrick
圣彼得	sheng	de	Saint Peter
圣彼得堡	sheng	bao	Saint Petersburg (city in Russia)
圣德克旭贝里	sheng	li	(Antoine de) Saint-Exupéry
圣德太子	sheng	zi	Prince Shōtoku Taiji (574-621), major Japanese statesman and reformer of the Asuka period 飛鳥時代|飞鸟时代[Fei1 niao3 Shi2 dai4], proponent of state Buddhism, portrayed as Buddhist saint
圣心节	sheng	jie	Feast of the Sacred Heart
圣文森及格瑞那丁	sheng	ding	Saint Vincent and the Grenadines (Tw)
圣文森和格林纳丁	sheng	ding	St Vincent and Grenadines, Caribbean island in Lesser Antilles
圣母升天节	sheng	jie	Assumption of the Virgin Mary (Christian festival on 15th August)
圣母婊	sheng	biao	(Internet slang) sanctimonious bitch
圣母峰	sheng	feng	(Tw) Mount Everest
圣母教堂	sheng	tang	Church of Our Lady; Frauenkirche
圣母玛利亚	sheng	ya	Mary (mother of Jesus)
圣潘克勒斯站	sheng	zhan	Saint Pancras (London railway station)
圣灰瞻礼日	sheng	ri	Ash Wednesday
圣灰节	sheng	jie	Ash Wednesday (first day of Lent)
圣灵降临	sheng	lin	Pentecost
圣烛节	sheng	jie	Candlemas (Christian Festival on 2nd February)
圣皮埃尔和密克隆	sheng	long	Saint-Pierre and Miquelon
圣神降临	sheng	lin	Whit Sunday (Christian Festival celebrating the Holy Spirit)
圣神降临周	sheng	zhou	Whitsuntide
圣索非亚	sheng	ya	Hagia Sophia (Greek: Holy wisdom)
圣索非亚大教堂	sheng	tang	Hagia Sophia (the main cathedral of Constantinople, subsequently the major mosque of Istanbul)
圣约瑟夫	sheng	fu	Saint Joseph
圣约翰	sheng	han	Saint John
圣约翰斯	sheng	si	St John's, capital of Labrador and Newfoundland province, Canada
圣纳帕	sheng	pa	Agia Napa, Cyprus; Ayia Napa, Cyprus
圣经外传	sheng	zhuan	Apocrypha; biography external to the classics
圣经贤传	sheng	zhuan	lit. holy scripture and biography of sage (idiom); refers to Confucian canonical texts
圣胡安	sheng	an	San Juan, capital of Puerto Rico
圣膏油	sheng	you	chrism; holy anointing oil
圣荷西	sheng	xi	(Tw) San Jose
圣萨尔瓦多	sheng	duo	San Salvador, capital of El Salvador
圣诞前夕	sheng	xi	Christmas eve
圣诞卡	sheng	ka	Christmas card
圣诞岛	sheng	dao	Christmas Island, Australia
圣诞帽	sheng	mao	Santa hat
圣诞快乐	sheng	le	Merry Christmas
圣诞树	sheng	shu	Christmas tree
圣诞红	sheng	hong	poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima)
圣诞老人	sheng	ren	Father Christmas; Santa Claus
圣诞节	sheng	jie	Christmas time; Christmas season; Christmas
圣诞花	sheng	hua	poinsettia (Euphorbia pulcherrima)
圣诞颂	sheng	song	A Christmas Carol by Charles Dickens
圣贤书	sheng	shu	holy book
圣贤孔子鸟	sheng	niao	Confuciusornis sanctus (Jurassic fossil bird)
圣赫勒拿	sheng	na	St Helena
圣赫勒拿岛	sheng	dao	Saint Helena
圣路易斯	sheng	si	St Louis, large city in eastern Missouri
圣露西亚	sheng	ya	Saint Lucia (Tw)
圣餐台	sheng	tai	(Christian) altar
圣马利诺	sheng	nuo	San Marino (Tw)
圣马力诺	sheng	nuo	San Marino
圣马洛	sheng	luo	Saint-Malo, port city in Brittany, France
在一起	zai	qi	together
在下面	zai	mian	underneath
在位时代	zai	dai	reign (of a king, emperor etc)
在千钧一发之际	zai	ji	at the critical moment; in the nick of time
在地下	zai	xia	underground
在天之灵	zai	ling	soul and spirit of the deceased
在我看	zai	kan	in my opinion; in my view
在我看来	zai	lai	in my opinion
在户外	zai	wai	outdoors
在所不计	zai	ji	irrespective of; to have no concerns whatsoever about
在所不辞	zai	ci	not to refuse to (idiom); not to hesitate to
在所难免	zai	mian	to be unavoidable (idiom)
在来米	zai	mi	(Tw) long-grained non-glutinous rice
在枪口	zai	kou	at gunpoint
在此之前	zai	qian	before that; beforehand; previously
在此之后	zai	hou	after this; afterwards; next
在此之际	zai	ji	meanwhile; at the same time
在此后	zai	hou	after this; from then on
在深处	zai	chu	deeply
在职训练	zai	lian	on-the-job training
在诉讼期间	zai	jian	pendente lite; during litigation
在这之前	zai	qian	before then; up until that point
在这期间	zai	jian	during time; in this time
在那儿	zai	r	(adverbial expression indicating that the attention of the subject of the verb is focused on what they are doing, not distracted by anything else); just ...ing (and nothing else)
在野党	zai	dang	opposition party
圭亚那	gui	na	Guyana
地三鲜	di	xian	dish consisting of stir-fried potato, eggplant and green pepper
地下城	di	cheng	dungeon (in video games or fantasy settings etc)
地下室	di	shi	basement; cellar
地下情	di	qing	secret love affair
地下核试验	di	yan	underground nuclear test
地下水	di	shui	groundwater
地下茎	di	jing	(botany) underground stem
地下街	di	jie	underground shopping arcade; underground mall
地下通道	di	dao	underground passage; underpass
地下道	di	dao	underground passage; underpass
地下钱庄	di	zhuang	underground bank; illegal private bank; loan shark
地下铁路	di	lu	subway
地中海	di	hai	Mediterranean Sea
地中海贫血	di	xue	thalassemia (medicine)
地主家庭	di	ting	land-owning household
地主队	di	dui	home team (sports)
地主阶级	di	ji	the landlord class
地久天长	di	chang	see 天長地久|天长地久[tian1 chang2 di4 jiu3]
地产大亨	di	heng	Monopoly (game); known as 大富翁[Da4 fu4 weng1] in PRC
地产税	di	shui	property tax
地利人和	di	he	favorable geographical and social conditions (idiom); good location and the people satisfied
地动仪	di	yi	the world's first seismograph invented by Zhang Heng 張衡|张衡[Zhang1 Heng2] in 132; abbr. for 候風地動儀|候风地动仪[hou4 feng1 di4 dong4 yi2]
地动山摇	di	yao	the earth quaked, the mountains shook (idiom); a tremendous battle
地勤人员	di	yuan	(airport) ground crew
地区冲突	di	tu	local or regional confrontation
地区差价	di	jia	local differences in price; regional price variation
地区性	di	xing	regional; local
地区法院	di	yuan	regional court
地区经济	di	ji	local economy; regional economy
地图册	di	ce	atlas
地图集	di	ji	collection of maps; atlas
地地道道	di	dao	thoroughgoing; authentic; 100%
地址解析协议	di	yi	address resolution protocol; ARP
地塞米松	di	song	dexamethasone
地壳运动	di	dong	(geotectonics) crustal movement; diastrophism
地外文明	di	ming	extraterrestrial civilization
地大物博	di	bo	vast territory with abundant resources (idiom)
地头蛇	di	she	local bully; tyrant; regional mafia boss
地对空导弹	di	dan	ground-to-air missile
地层学	di	xue	stratigraphy (geology)
地市级	di	ji	prefecture level (the administrative tier below the provincial level, including prefecture-level cities, autonomous prefectures, prefectures and leagues)
地平线	di	xian	horizon
地广人稀	di	xi	vast, but sparsely populated
地形图	di	tu	topographic map
地心吸力	di	li	Earth's gravitational pull
地心引力	di	li	Earth's gravity
地心纬度	di	du	geocentric latitude (i.e. angle between the equatorial plane and straight line from center of the earth)
地心说	di	shuo	geocentric theory
地拉那	di	na	Tirana, capital of Albania
地排车	di	che	handcart
地方主义	di	yi	regionalism; favoring one's local region
地方官	di	guan	local official
地方性	di	xing	local
地方性斑疹伤寒	di	han	murine typhus fever
地方戏	di	xi	local Chinese opera, such as Shaoxing opera 越劇|越剧[Yue4 ju4], Sichuan opera 川劇|川剧[Chuan1 ju4], Henan opera 豫劇|豫剧[Yu4 ju4] etc
地方戏曲	di	qu	local Chinese opera, such as Shaoxing opera 越劇|越剧[Yue4 ju4], Sichuan opera 川劇|川剧[Chuan1 ju4], Henan opera 豫劇|豫剧[Yu4 ju4] etc
地方法院	di	yuan	county court; district court
地方自治	di	zhi	local autonomy; home rule
地板价	di	jia	floor price; rock-bottom price
地板砖	di	zhuan	floor tile
地检署	di	shu	district prosecutor's office
地毯式轰炸	di	zha	carpet bombing
地毯拖鞋	di	xie	carpet slippers
地沟油	di	you	illegally recycled waste cooking oil
地滚球	di	qiu	ten-pin bowling; bowling ball; (baseball etc) ground ball
地热发电厂	di	chang	geothermal electric power station
地热电站	di	zhan	geothermal electric power station
地热能	di	neng	geothermal energy
地热资源	di	yuan	geothermal resources
地牛翻身	di	shen	(Tw) (coll.) earthquake (According to a folk tale, earthquakes are caused by the occasional movements of an ox that lives under the earth.)
地狭人稠	di	chou	(idiom) small and densely populated
地狱笑话	di	hua	(coll.) transgressive humor that treats tragedy, suffering, or other morally sensitive topics as jokes (implying that laughing would send one to hell)
地球仪	di	yi	globe
地球化学	di	xue	geochemistry
地球同步卫星	di	xing	(astronomy) geosynchronous satellite
地球同步轨道	di	dao	(astronomy) geosynchronous orbit
地球村	di	cun	global village
地球物理	di	li	geophysics
地球物理学	di	xue	geophysics
地球磁场	di	chang	earth's magnetic field
地球科学	di	xue	earth science
地球轨道	di	dao	Earth orbit (orbit of a satellite around the Earth); Earth's orbit (orbit of the Earth around the Sun)
地球静止卫星	di	xing	(astronomy) geostationary satellite
地球静止轨道	di	dao	(astronomy) geostationary orbit
地理位置	di	zhi	geographical location
地理学	di	xue	geography
地理学家	di	jia	geographer
地理定位	di	wei	geolocation
地理极	di	ji	geographic pole; north and south poles
地理纬度	di	du	geographic latitude (i.e. angle between the equatorial plane and the normal to the reference ellipsoid)
地瓜干	di	gan	dried sweet potato slices
地瓜面	di	mian	sweet potato or yam noodles
地瓜鸟	di	niao	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
地磁场	di	chang	the earth's magnetic field
地磁暴	di	bao	geomagnetic storm
地窄人稠	di	chou	see 地狹人稠|地狭人稠[di4 xia2 ren2 chou2]
地窨子	di	zi	cellar
地级市	di	shi	prefecture-level city
地缘战略	di	lve	geostrategic
地缘政治	di	zhi	geopolitics; geopolitical
地缘政治学	di	xue	geopolitics
地老天荒	di	huang	see 天荒地老[tian1 huang1 di4 lao3]
地藏王菩萨	di	sa	Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva of the Great Vow (to save all souls before accepting Bodhi); also translated Earth Treasury, Earth Womb, or Earth Store Bodhisattva
地藏菩萨	di	sa	Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva of the Great Vow (to save all souls before accepting Bodhi); also translated Earth Treasury, Earth Womb, or Earth Store Bodhisattva
地表水	di	shui	surface water
地西泮	di	pan	diazepam (loanword); Valium
地角天涯	di	ya	The ends of the earth
地质学	di	xue	geology
地质学家	di	jia	geologist
地质年代表	di	biao	geological time scale
地质年表	di	biao	geological time scale
地躺拳	di	quan	Di Tang Quan - "Ground-Prone Fist"; "Ground Tumbling Boxing" - Martial Art
地铁站	di	zhan	subway station
地震仪	di	yi	seismometer
地震区	di	qu	seismic zone; earthquake belt
地震学	di	xue	seismology; science of earthquakes
地震学家	di	jia	seismologist; earthquake scientist
地震局	di	ju	earthquake bureau
地震带	di	dai	seismic zone; earthquake belt
地震波	di	bo	seismic wave
地震活动带	di	dai	seismic zone; earthquake belt
地震烈度	di	du	earthquake intensity (measure of its destructive power)
地震速报	di	bao	real-time report of earthquake data; earthquake alert
地面层	di	ceng	ground floor; first floor
地面控制	di	zhi	ground control (of airborne or space operation)
地面气压	di	ya	ground pressure
地面水	di	shui	surface water
地面灌溉	di	gai	surface irrigation
地面部队	di	dui	ground troops
地面零点	di	dian	Ground Zero (refers to the site of the World Trade Center destroyed in 9-11-2001 attack)
场区应急	chang	ji	site area emergency (nuclear facility emergency classification)
场地自行车	chang	che	track bike; track cycling
场外应急	chang	ji	general emergency (or "off-site emergency") (nuclear facility emergency classification)
场记板	chang	ban	(filmmaking) clapperboard
均匀性	jun	xing	homogeneity; uniformity
均变论	jun	lun	uniformitarianism
均田制	jun	zhi	equal-field system of Wei of the Northern dynasties 北魏 and Tang 唐 dynasties
均等化	jun	hua	to equalize; leveling; making uniform
均等论	jun	lun	doctrine of equivalents (patent law)
均腐土	jun	tu	isohumisol (soil taxonomy)
均衡器	jun	qi	equalizer (electronics, audio)
坊子区	fang	qu	Fangzi, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
坊间传言	fang	yan	rumors; the word on the street
坎儿井	kan	jing	karez, qanat or "horizontal well" (irrigation and water management system used in Xinjiang, Central Asia and Middle East)
坎坷不平	kan	ping	potholed and bumpy road (idiom); fig. full of disappointment and dashed hopes
坎坷多舛	kan	chuan	full of trouble and misfortune (usu. referring to someone's life)
坎培拉	kan	la	Canberra, capital of Australia (Tw)
坎塔布连	kan	lian	Cantabria in north Spain
坎塔布连山脉	kan	mai	Cantabrian mountain range in north Spain dividing Asturias from Castilla-Leon
坎塔布连海	kan	hai	Bay of Biscay (Spanish: Mare Cantabrico)
坎塔布里亚	kan	ya	Cantabria, Spanish autonomous region, capital Santander 桑坦德[Sang1 tan3 de2]
坎大哈	kan	ha	Kandahar (town in Southern Afghanistan)
坎大哈省	kan	sheng	Kandahar province of Afghanistan
坎帕拉	kan	la	Kampala, capital of Uganda
坎德拉	kan	la	candela (unit of luminosity); standard candle
坎特伯雷	kan	lei	Canterbury
坎特伯雷故事集	kan	ji	The Canterbury Tales, collection of stories by Geoffrey Chaucer 喬叟|乔叟[Qiao2 sou3]
坎肩儿	kan	r	erhua variant of 坎肩[kan3 jian1]
坎贝尔	kan	er	Campbell (name)
坎贝尔侏儒仓鼠	kan	shu	Campbell's dwarf hamster (Phodopus campbelli)
坏东西	huai	xi	bastard; scoundrel; rogue
坏分子	huai	zi	bad element; troublemaker
坏包儿	huai	r	rascal; rogue; little devil (term of endearment)
坏家伙	huai	huo	bad guy; scoundrel; dirty bastard
坏肠子	huai	zi	evil person
坏脾气	huai	qi	bad temper
坏血病	huai	bing	scurvy
坐不垂堂	zuo	tang	lit. don't sit under the eaves (where tiles may fall from the roof) (idiom); fig. keep out of danger
坐井观天	zuo	tian	lit. to view the sky from the bottom of a well (idiom); ignorant and narrow-minded
坐享其成	zuo	cheng	to reap where one has not sown (idiom)
坐以待毙	zuo	bi	to sit and wait for death (idiom); resigned to one's fate
坐便器	zuo	qi	pedestal type WC
坐冷板凳	zuo	deng	to hold an inconsequential job; to receive a cold reception; to be kept waiting for an assignment or audience
坐卧不宁	zuo	ning	to be restless
坐厕垫	zuo	dian	toilet seat
坐台小姐	zuo	jie	bar girl; professional escort
坐吃享福	zuo	fu	vegetative existence; to consume passively without doing anything useful
坐吃山空	zuo	kong	lit. just sitting and eating, one can deplete even a mountain of wealth (idiom); fig. to spend one's money without generating any income
坐失机宜	zuo	yi	to sit and waste a good opportunity (idiom); to lose the chance
坐失良机	zuo	ji	to sit and waste a good opportunity (idiom); to lose the chance
坐山观虎斗	zuo	dou	lit. sit on the mountain and watch the tigers fight (idiom); fig. watch in safety whilst others fight then reap the rewards when both sides are exhausted
坐山雕	zuo	diao	cinereous vulture (Aegypius monachus)
坐收渔利	zuo	li	benefit from others' dispute (idiom)
坐月子	zuo	zi	to convalesce for a month following childbirth, following a special diet, and observing various taboos to protect the body from exposure to the "wind"
坐标法	zuo	fa	(math.) coordinate method
坐标空间	zuo	jian	coordinate space
坐标系	zuo	xi	(geometry) coordinate system
坐浴桶	zuo	tong	bidet
坐浴盆	zuo	pen	bidet
坐班房	zuo	fang	to be in prison
坐电梯	zuo	ti	to take an elevator
坐立不安	zuo	an	lit. agitated sitting or standing (idiom); restless; fidgety
坐立难安	zuo	an	unable to sit or stand still (out of nervousness etc) (idiom)
坐而论道	zuo	dao	to sit and pontificate; to find answers through theory and not through practice (idiom)
坐观成败	zuo	bai	to sit and await success or failure (idiom); to wait to see the outcome of a fight before taking sides; to sit on the fence
坐视不理	zuo	li	to sit and watch, but remain indifferent (idiom)
坐降落伞	zuo	san	to do a parachute jump
坐骨神经	zuo	jing	sciatic nerve
坐骨神经痛	zuo	tong	sciatica
坐龙庭	zuo	ting	to be the reigning emperor; to ascend to the imperial throne
坑坑洼洼	keng	wa	full of pits and hollows; bumpy
坑蒙拐骗	keng	pian	(idiom) to swindle, scam and deceive
块儿八毛	kuai	mao	one yuan or less; around 80 cents or one dollar
坚不可摧	jian	cui	(idiom) invulnerable; indestructible; impregnable
坚信礼	jian	li	confirmation (Christian ceremony)
坚固性	jian	xing	firmness
坚壁清野	jian	ye	to fortify defenses and raze the fields (idiom); to leave nothing for the invader; scorched earth policy
坚如磐石	jian	shi	solid as a boulder (idiom); absolutely secure; rock-firm and unyielding
坚定不移	jian	yi	unswerving; unflinching
坚定性	jian	xing	firmness; steadfastness
坚尼系数	jian	shu	(HK) see 基尼係數|基尼系数[Ji1 ni2 xi4 shu4]
坚强不屈	jian	qu	staunch and unyielding (idiom); steadfast
坚忍不拔	jian	ba	fortitude
坚持下去	jian	qu	to press on
坚持不懈	jian	xie	(idiom) to persevere unremittingly; to keep going until the end
坚持不渝	jian	yu	to stick to sth without change (idiom); to persevere
坚振礼	jian	li	confirmation (Christian ceremony)
坚若磐石	jian	shi	rock-solid
坚苦卓绝	jian	jue	persisting despite trials and tribulations (idiom); conspicuous determination
坚贞不屈	jian	qu	faithful and unchanging (idiom); steadfast
坚贞不渝	jian	yu	unyielding integrity (idiom); unwavering
坚韧不拔	jian	ba	firm and indomitable (idiom); tenacious and unyielding
坠入情网	zhui	wang	to fall in love
坠入爱河	zhui	he	to fall in love
坡头区	po	qu	Potou, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
坦佩雷	tan	lei	Tampere (Swedish Tammerfors), Finland's second city
坦克车	tan	che	tank (armored vehicle)
坦博拉	tan	la	Tambora, volcano on Indonesian island of Sumbawa 松巴哇, whose 1815 eruption is greatest in recorded history
坦噶尼喀	tan	ka	Tanganyika, sovereign state in Africa (1961–1964), later part of Tanzania
坦噶尼喀湖	tan	hu	Lake Tanganyika in East Africa
坦尚尼亚	tan	ya	Tanzania (Tw)
坦桑尼亚	tan	ya	Tanzania
坦然无惧	tan	ju	remain calm and undaunted
坦诚相见	tan	jian	to trust one another fully; to treat sb with sincerity
坪山区	ping	qu	Pingshan, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
垂头丧气	chui	qi	hanging one's head dispiritedly (idiom); dejected; crestfallen
垂帘听政	chui	zheng	lit. to govern from behind the curtain; to rule in place of the emperor (idiom)
垂悬分词	chui	ci	dangling participle (grammar)
垂悬结构	chui	gou	dangling element (grammar)
垂暮之年	chui	nian	old age
垂杨柳	chui	liu	weeping willow
垂死挣扎	chui	zha	deathbed struggle; final struggle (idiom)
垂涎三尺	chui	chi	to drool (over) (idiom); to yearn for; to covet
垂涎欲滴	chui	di	to drool with desire (idiom); to envy; to hunger for
垂直和短距起落飞机	chui	ji	vertical or short takeoff and landing aircraft
垂直尾翼	chui	yi	(aviation) tailfin; vertical stabilizer
垂直线	chui	xian	vertical line
垂直起落飞机	chui	ji	vertical takeoff and landing aircraft
垂直轴	chui	zhou	vertical shaft; (math.) vertical axis
垃圾分类	la	lei	waste sorting; waste separation
垃圾堆	la	dui	garbage heap
垃圾工	la	gong	garbage collector
垃圾桶	la	tong	rubbish bin; trash can; garbage can
垃圾电邮	la	you	see 垃圾郵件|垃圾邮件[la1 ji1 you2 jian4]
垃圾筒	la	tong	trashcan
垃圾箱	la	xiang	rubbish can; garbage can; trash can
垃圾股	la	gu	junk bonds; high-yield bonds
垃圾车	la	che	garbage truck (or other vehicle)
垃圾邮件	la	jian	junk mail; spam; unsolicited mail
垃圾食品	la	pin	junk food
垣曲县	yuan	xian	Yuanqu, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
垦丁国家公园	ken	yuan	Kenting National Park on the Hengchun Peninsula 恆春半島|恒春半岛[Heng2 chun1 Ban4 dao3], Pingtung county, south Taiwan
垦利区	ken	qu	Kenli, a district of Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
垫底儿	dian	r	erhua variant of 墊底|垫底[dian4 di3]
垫底费	dian	fei	deductible (the part of an insurance claim paid by the insured); (UK English) excess
垫江县	dian	xian	Dianjiang, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
垫脚石	dian	shi	stepping stone; fig. person used to advance one's career
埃克托	ai	tuo	Hector (name)
埃利斯岛	ai	dao	Ellis Island
埃加迪群岛	ai	dao	Aegadian Islands near Sicily, Italy
埃博拉	ai	la	Ebola (virus)
埃博拉病毒	ai	du	Ebola virus
埃及古物学	ai	xue	Egyptology
埃及夜鹰	ai	ying	(bird species of China) Egyptian nightjar (Caprimulgus aegyptius)
埃及学	ai	xue	Egyptology
埃及豆	ai	dou	chickpea
埃因霍温	ai	wen	Eindhoven (city in the Netherlands)
埃塞俄比亚	ai	ya	Ethiopia
埃塞俄比亚界	ai	jie	(biogeography) the Afrotropical realm (formerly, the Ethiopian Zone)
埃夫伯里	ai	li	Avebury (stone circle near Stonehenge)
埃奥罗斯	ai	si	Aeolus, Greek God of winds
埃尔南德斯	ai	si	Hernández (name)
埃尔多安	ai	an	Recep Tayyip Erdoğan (1954–), Turkish politician, prime minister 2003–2014, president 2014–
埃尔尼诺	ai	nuo	see 厄爾尼諾|厄尔尼诺[e4 er3 ni2 nuo4]
埃尔帕索	ai	suo	El Paso, Texas
埃尔朗根	ai	gen	Erlangen (town in Bavaria)
埃尔朗根纲领	ai	ling	Felix Klein's Erlangen program (1872) on geometry and group theory
埃尔福特	ai	te	Erfurt (German city)
埃尔金	ai	jin	James Bruce, 8th Earl of Elgin (1811-1863), British High Commissioner to China who ordered the looting and destruction of the Old Winter Palace Yuanmingyuan 圓明園|圆明园 in 1860; Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin (1766-1841), who stole the Parthenon Marbles in 1801-1810
埃尔金大理石	ai	shi	the Elgin Marbles, the Parthenon marbles stolen in 1801-1810 by Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin
埃布罗	ai	luo	Ebro river (in northeast Spain)
埃布罗河	ai	he	Ebro River (in northeast Spain)
埃德加	ai	jia	Edgar (name)
埃德蒙	ai	meng	(name) Edmund; Edmond
埃德蒙顿	ai	dun	Edmonton, capital of Alberta, Canada
埃拉托斯特尼	ai	ni	Eratosthenes of Cyrene (c. 276–c. 195 BC), Greek polymath
埃拉特	ai	te	Eilat, Israeli port and resort on the Red sea
埃文斯	ai	si	Evans; Ivins; Ivens
埃文河畔斯特拉特福	ai	fu	Stratford-upon-Avon
埃斯库多	ai	duo	escudo, former currency of Portugal and other countries
埃斯库罗斯	ai	si	Aeschylus (c. 524 BC -c. 455 BC), Greek tragedian, author of The Persians, Seven against Thebes etc
埃斯特哈齐	ai	qi	Esterhazy (name)
埃斯特朗	ai	lang	Anders Jonas Angstrom or Ångström (1814-1874), Swedish physicist
埃曼塔	ai	ta	Emmentaler (cheese)
埃格尔松	ai	song	Egersund (city in Norway)
埃森哲	ai	zhe	Accenture (company)
埃森纳赫	ai	he	Eisenach (German city)
埃涅阿斯	ai	si	Aeneas, hero of Virgil's Aeneid
埃涅阿斯纪	ai	ji	Virgil's Aeneid (epic about the foundation of Rome)
埃特纳火山	ai	shan	Mt Etna, volcano in Italy
埃琳娜	ai	na	Elena (name)
埃米尔	ai	er	(loanword) emir; amir
埃菲尔铁塔	ai	ta	Eiffel Tower
埃迪卡拉	ai	la	Ediacaran (c. 635-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era
埃迪卡拉纪	ai	ji	Ediacaran period (c. 635-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era
埃里温	ai	wen	Yerevan, capital of Armenia 亞美尼亞|亚美尼亚[Ya4 mei3 ni2 ya4]
埇桥区	yong	qu	Yongqiao, a district of Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
埋天怨地	man	di	lit. to blame the heavens and reproach the earth; fig. to rave and rant
埋头苦干	mai	gan	to bury oneself in work (idiom); to be engrossed in work; to make an all-out effort; up to the neck in work
城东区	cheng	qu	Chengdong, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
城中区	cheng	qu	Chengzhong, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi; Chengzhong, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
城中村	cheng	cun	village within a city; shantytown; ghetto
城关区	cheng	qu	Chengguan, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu; Chengguan, a district of Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
城北区	cheng	qu	Chengbei, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
城厢区	cheng	qu	Chengxiang, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
城口县	cheng	xian	Chengkou, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
城固县	cheng	xian	Chenggu, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
城域网	cheng	wang	metropolitan area network
城子河	cheng	he	see 城子河區|城子河区[Cheng2 zi5 he2 Qu1]
城子河区	cheng	qu	Chengzihe, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
城巴佬	cheng	lao	(slang) (jocular) "city bumpkin", city person lacking basic rural or natural-world knowledge (play on 鄉巴佬|乡巴佬[xiang1 ba5 lao3])
城市依赖症	cheng	zheng	"urban dependence disease" (sufferers are unwilling to give up city comforts and return to the countryside)
城市化	cheng	hua	urbanization
城市管理行政执法局	cheng	ju	City Urban Administrative and Law Enforcement Bureau (PRC)
城市规划	cheng	hua	town planning
城市运动会	cheng	hui	National Intercity Games, Chinese athletics competition, organized every four years since 1988
城步县	cheng	xian	see 城步苗族自治縣|城步苗族自治县[Cheng2 bu4 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
城步苗族自治县	cheng	xian	Chengbu Miao Autonomous County, in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
城西区	cheng	qu	Chengxi, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
城运会	cheng	hui	abbr. for 城市運動會|城市运动会[Cheng2 shi4 Yun4 dong4 hui4]
城里人	cheng	ren	city dweller; townspeople
城镇化	cheng	hua	urbanization
城镇化水平	cheng	ping	urbanization level (of a city or town)
城门失火殃及池鱼	cheng	yu	a fire in the city gates is also a calamity for the fish in the moat (idiom); the bystander will also suffer; fig. you can't escape responsibility for your actions; ask not for whom the bell tolls - it tolls for thee
城阳区	cheng	qu	Chengyang, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
域名抢注	yu	zhu	cybersquatting; domain squatting
域名服务器	yu	qi	domain name server
域名注册	yu	ce	domain name registration
域名编码	yu	ma	Punycode (encoding for internationalized domain names) (abbr. for 國際化域名編碼|国际化域名编码[Guo2 ji4 hua4 Yu4 ming2 Bian1 ma3])
培养基	pei	ji	culture medium
培养液	pei	ye	culture fluid (in biological lab.)
培养皿	pei	min	Petri dish
培勒兹	pei	zi	Perez (name)
培训班	pei	ban	training class
基加利	ji	li	Kigali, capital of Rwanda
基因体	ji	ti	genome (Tw)
基因修改	ji	gai	genetic modification
基因图谱	ji	pu	mapping of genome
基因型	ji	xing	genotype
基因学	ji	xue	genetics
基因工程	ji	cheng	genetic engineering
基因库	ji	ku	gene bank
基因座	ji	zuo	(genetics) locus
基因技术	ji	shu	gene technology
基因改造	ji	zao	genetic modification; GM
基因治疗	ji	liao	gene therapy
基因码	ji	ma	genetic code
基因突变	ji	bian	genetic mutation
基因组	ji	zu	genome
基地恐怖组织	ji	zhi	Al-Qaeda; same as 基地組織|基地组织
基地组织	ji	zhi	Al-Qaeda
基孔肯雅热	ji	re	chikungunya fever
基尔特	ji	te	guild (loanword)
基尼系数	ji	shu	Gini coefficient (a measure of statistical dispersion)
基布兹	ji	zi	kibbutz
基希讷乌	ji	wu	Chişinău or Chisinau, capital of Moldova
基底动脉	ji	mai	basilar artery (central artery of the brain)
基底细胞癌	ji	ai	basal cell carcinoma
基拉韦厄	ji	e	Kilauea, Hawaii, the world's most active volcano
基数词	ji	ci	cardinal numeral
基本上	ji	shang	basically; on the whole
基本利率	ji	lv	base rate (e.g. interest rate set by central bank)
基本功	ji	gong	basic skills; fundamentals
基本单位	ji	wei	basic unit; fundamental building block
基本原则	ji	ze	fundamental doctrine; guiding principle; raison d'être
基本原理	ji	li	fundamental principle
基本多文种平面	ji	mian	basic multilingual plane (BMP)
基本定理	ji	li	fundamental theorem
基本概念	ji	nian	basic concept
基本法	ji	fa	basic law (constitutional document)
基本点	ji	dian	key point; crux; (finance) basis point
基本盘	ji	pan	(political party's) voter base; (musician's) fan base; (a business's) customer base
基本粒子	ji	zi	elementary particle (particle physics)
基本词汇	ji	hui	basic word
基本需要	ji	yao	basic necessity; fundamental need
基本面	ji	mian	basics; essentials; fundamentals; (finance) fundamentals
基桑加尼	ji	ni	Kisangani (city in the Democratic Republic of the Congo)
基民党	ji	dang	Christian democratic party
基督圣体节	ji	jie	Corpus Christi (Catholic festival on second Thursday after Whit Sunday)
基督城	ji	cheng	Christchurch (New Zealand city)
基督徒	ji	tu	Christian
基督教	ji	jiao	Christianity
基督教徒	ji	tu	a Christian
基督教民主联盟	ji	meng	Christian Democratic Union (German political party)
基督教派	ji	pai	Christian denomination
基督教科学派	ji	pai	Christian Science
基督新教	ji	jiao	Protestantism
基础建设	ji	she	(Tw) infrastructure
基础教育	ji	yu	elementary education
基础病	ji	bing	underlying medical condition
基础结构	ji	gou	underlying infrastructure (of a system, organization etc)
基础设施	ji	shi	infrastructure
基础设施即服务	ji	wu	(computing) infrastructure as a service (IaaS)
基础课	ji	ke	basic course; core curriculum
基础速率	ji	lv	basic rate (as in ISDN)
基础问题	ji	ti	basic issue; fundamental question
基罗米突	ji	tu	kilometer (old) (loanword)
基西纽	ji	niu	Chișinău (aka Kishinev), capital of Moldova (Tw)
基诺族	ji	zu	Jino ethnic group
基谐波	ji	bo	fundamental frequency; base harmonic
基质膜	ji	mo	basal plasma membrane
基辅罗斯	ji	si	Kievan Rus', East Slavic state that reached its peak in the early to mid-11th century
基辛格	ji	ge	Henry Kissinger (1923–2023), US academic and politician, Secretary of State 1973–1977
基里巴斯	ji	si	Kiribati
基里巴斯共和国	ji	guo	Kiribati
基金会	ji	hui	foundation (institution supported by an endowment)
基隆市	ji	shi	Chilung or Keelung, city and major port in north Taiwan
堂兄弟	tang	di	father's brother's sons; paternal male cousin
堂吉诃德	tang	de	Don Quixote
堂堂正正	tang	zheng	displaying strength and discipline; impressive; upright and frank
堂妹夫	tang	fu	husband of younger female cousin via male line
堂姊妹	tang	mei	father's brother's daughters; paternal female cousin
堂姐夫	tang	fu	husband of older female cousin via male line
堂弟妹	tang	mei	wife of younger male cousin via male line; younger cousins via male line
堂弟媳	tang	xi	wife of younger male cousin via male line
堂而皇之	tang	zhi	overt; to make no secret (of one's presence); grandiose
堆垒数论	dui	lun	additive number theory (math.)
堆堆帽	dui	mao	slouchy beanie
堆案盈几	dui	ji	lit. piles of work and papers (idiom); fig. accumulated backlog of work
堆积如山	dui	shan	to pile up like a mountain (idiom); a mountain of (paperwork etc); a large number of sth
堆积木	dui	mu	to play with stacking blocks
堆金积玉	dui	yu	lit. pile up gold and jade; very rich
堆高机	dui	ji	forklift
堆高车	dui	che	high-lift pallet truck; pallet stacker
堆龙德庆	dui	qing	see 堆龍德慶區|堆龙德庆区[Dui1 long2 de2 qing4 Qu1]
堆龙德庆区	dui	qu	Doilungdêqên, a district of Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
堑壕战	qian	zhan	trench warfare
堕云雾中	duo	zhong	(lit.) to become lost in a fog (idiom); (fig.) at a complete loss
堡垒机	bao	ji	(computing) bastion host; jump server
堪培拉	kan	la	Canberra, capital of Australia
堪察加	kan	jia	Kamchatka (peninsula in far eastern Russia)
堪察加半岛	kan	dao	Kamchatka Peninsula, far-eastern Russia
堪察加柳莺	kan	ying	(bird species of China) Kamchatka leaf warbler (Phylloscopus examinandus)
堪萨斯	kan	si	Kansas, US state
堪达罕	kan	han	(dialect) moose (loanword via Manchu)
堰塞湖	yan	hu	barrier lake; landslide dam; dammed lake
堰蜓座	yan	zuo	Chamaeleon (constellation)
堵塞费	du	fei	traffic congestion fee
堵床上	du	shang	(coll.) to catch an adulterous couple in the act
塌棵菜	ta	cai	Brassica narinosa (broadbeaked mustard); Chinese flat cabbage
塑化剂	su	ji	plasticizer
塑料姐妹花	su	hua	(neologism, 2017) (slang) a pair of women whose seemingly close friendship is actually shallow, insincere and subtly competitive; fake besties; frenemies
塑料普通话	su	hua	(coll.) bad or awkward Mandarin (spoken with heavy accent, incorrect tones or other non-standard features)
塑料王	su	wang	"king of plastics" (nickname for polytetrafluoroethylene, PTFE)
塑料袋	su	dai	plastic bag
塑胶炸药	su	yao	plastic explosive
塑胶爆炸物	su	wu	plastic explosive
塑胶袋	su	dai	(Tw) plastic bag
塑胶跑道	su	dao	synthetic athletics track; tartan track
塑胶车	su	che	scooter (Tw)
塔什干	ta	gan	Tashkent, capital of Uzbekistan
塔什库尔干	ta	gan	see 塔什庫爾干塔吉克自治縣|塔什库尔干塔吉克自治县[Ta3 shi2 ku4 er3 gan1 Ta3 ji2 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
塔什库尔干县	ta	xian	see 塔什庫爾干塔吉克自治縣|塔什库尔干塔吉克自治县[Ta3 shi2 ku4 er3 gan1 Ta3 ji2 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
塔克拉玛干	ta	gan	see 塔克拉瑪干沙漠|塔克拉玛干沙漠[Ta3 ke4 la1 ma3 gan1 Sha1 mo4]
塔克拉玛干沙漠	ta	mo	Taklamakan Desert, Xinjiang
塔公寺	ta	si	Lhagang temple in Dartsendo county 康定縣|康定县[Kang1 ding4 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
塔列朗	ta	lang	Talleyrand (name); Prince Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord (1754-1838), French diplomat
塔利班	ta	ban	the Taliban, Islamist organization that emerged in the mid-1990s in Afghanistan
塔加路族语	ta	yu	Tagalog (language)
塔可饼	ta	bing	(loanword) taco
塔吉克	ta	ke	Tajik ethnic group; (Tw, HK) Tajikistan
塔吉克人	ta	ren	Tajik (person)
塔吉克斯坦	ta	tan	Tajikistan
塔吉克族	ta	zu	Tajik ethnic group
塔城地区	ta	qu	Tarbaĝatay, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
塔城市	ta	shi	Tacheng, a county-level city in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
塔塔儿	ta	r	Tartar (person)
塔塔儿人	ta	ren	Tartar (person)
塔塔尔	ta	er	Tatar ethnic group
塔塔尔族	ta	zu	Tatar ethnic group
塔塔粉	ta	fen	cream of tartar; potassium bitartrate
塔塔酱	ta	jiang	tartar sauce
塔夫绸	ta	chou	taffeta
塔尔寺	ta	si	Kumbum Monastery in Qinghai
塔尾树鹊	ta	que	(bird species of China) ratchet-tailed treepie (Temnurus temnurus)
塔希提	ta	ti	Tahiti, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia
塔帕斯	ta	si	tapas, small Spanish snacks (loanword)
塔拉哈西	ta	xi	Tallahassee, capital of Florida
塔拉斯河	ta	he	Talas River, originating in Kyrgyzstan and flowing west into Kazakhstan
塔拉瓦	ta	wa	Tarawa, capital of Kiribati
塔斯曼尼亚	ta	ya	Tasmania
塔斯曼尼亚岛	ta	dao	Tasmania
塔斯社	ta	she	TASS; Information Telegraph Agency of Russia
塔斯马尼亚	ta	ya	Tasmania (Tw)
塔木德经	ta	jing	Talmud
塔河县	ta	xian	Tahe, a county in Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
塔玛尔	ta	er	Tamar (name)
塔瓦斯科	ta	ke	Tabasco (south Mexican state)
塔罗卡	ta	ka	tarot card
塔罗牌	ta	pai	tarot card
塔迪奇	ta	qi	Tadich (name); Boris Tadić (1958-), Serbian politician, president 2004-2012
塔那那利佛	ta	fo	Antananarivo, capital of Madagascar
塔里木	ta	mu	the Tarim Basin in southern Xinjiang
塔里木河	ta	he	Tarim River of Xinjiang
塔里木盆地	ta	di	Tarim Basin depression in southern Xinjiang
塘沽区	tang	qu	Tanggu former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
塘角鱼	tang	yu	Hong Kong catfish (Clarias fuscus)
塞万提斯	sai	si	Miguel de Cervantes Saavedra (1547–1616), Spanish novelist, poet and playwright, author of Don Quixote 堂吉訶德|堂吉诃德[Tang2 ji2 he1 de2]
塞内加尔	sai	er	Senegal
塞勒姆	sai	mu	Salem, capital of Oregon; Salem, city in Massachusetts; Salem, city in India
塞哥维亚	sai	ya	Segovia (city in Spain)
塞尔特	sai	te	Celtic
塞尔特语	sai	yu	Celtic language
塞尔维亚	sai	ya	Serbia; Taiwan pr. [Se4er3wei2ya4]
塞尔维亚克罗地亚语	sai	yu	Serbo-Croatian (language)
塞尔维亚和黑山	sai	shan	Serbia and Montenegro (a country that existed 2003–2006)
塞尔维亚语	sai	yu	Serbian (language)
塞尔达	sai	da	Zelda (in Legend of Zelda video game)
塞巴斯蒂安	sai	an	(name) Sebastian
塞席尔	sai	er	(Tw) the Seychelles
塞拉利昂	sai	ang	Sierra Leone
塞拉耶佛	sai	fo	(Tw) Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina
塞擦音	se	yin	affricate (phonetics)
塞斯纳	sai	na	Cessna (American aircraft manufacturer)
塞浦路斯	sai	si	Cyprus
塞特犬	sai	quan	setter (dog breed)
塞瓦斯托波尔	sai	er	Sevastopol, port city on the Crimean Peninsula
塞纳河	sai	he	Seine
塞维利亚	sai	ya	Seville, city in Andalusia, Spain
塞缪尔	sai	er	(name) Samuel
塞翁失马	sai	ma	lit. the old man lost his horse, but it all turned out for the best (idiom); fig. a blessing in disguise; it's an ill wind that blows nobody any good
塞翁失马安知非福	sai	fu	the old man lost his mare, but it all turned out for the best (idiom); fig. a blessing in disguise; it's an ill wind that blows nobody any good; also written 塞翁失馬焉知非福|塞翁失马焉知非福
塞翁失马焉知非福	sai	fu	the old man lost his mare, but it all turned out for the best (idiom); fig. a blessing in disguise; it's an ill wind that blows nobody any good
塞舌尔	sai	er	the Seychelles
塞舌尔群岛	sai	dao	the Seychelles
塞韦里诺	sai	nuo	(name) Severino
填充剂	tian	ji	bulking agent
填充物	tian	wu	filler; filling; stuffing
填充题	tian	ti	fill-in-the-blank question
填塞物	tian	wu	stuffing; filling material
填字游戏	tian	xi	crossword
填鸭式	tian	shi	force feeding (as a teaching method)
境内外	jing	wai	within and without the borders; domestic and foreign; home and abroad
境由心生	jing	sheng	our mindset frames how we view the world
墓志铭	mu	ming	epitaph
墓葬区	mu	qu	burial area
墓葬群	mu	qun	burial complex (archaeology)
墙倒众人推	qiang	tui	lit. when a wall is about to collapse, everybody gives it a shove (idiom); fig. everybody hits a man who is down
墙头草	qiang	cao	sb who goes whichever way the wind blows; sb with no mind of their own; easily swayed person
墙旮旯	qiang	la	recess between walls
墙板锯	qiang	ju	drywall saw; plasterboard saw
增三和弦	zeng	xian	augmented triad (musical chord)
增值税	zeng	shui	value-added tax (VAT)
增加值	zeng	zhi	value added (accountancy)
增城区	zeng	qu	Zengcheng, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
增塑剂	zeng	ji	plasticizer
增强现实	zeng	shi	(computing) augmented reality; AR
增殖反应堆	zeng	dui	breeder reactor
增温层	zeng	ceng	(meteorology) thermosphere
增白剂	zeng	ji	whitener; whitening agent
增稠剂	zeng	ji	thickener
增订本	zeng	ben	revised and enlarged edition
增重粉	zeng	fen	gainer (supplement)
增量参数	zeng	shu	incremental parameter
增长天	zeng	tian	Virudhaka (one of the Heavenly Kings)
增长率	zeng	lv	growth rate (esp. in economics)
墨丘利	mo	li	Mercury (Roman god)
墨守成规	mo	gui	hidebound by convention (idiom)
墨尔本	mo	ben	Melbourne, Australia
墨尔钵	mo	bo	see 墨爾本|墨尔本[Mo4 er3 ben3]
墨巴本	mo	ben	(Tw) Mbabane, administrative capital of Eswatini
墨水儿	mo	r	erhua variant of 墨水[mo4 shui3]
墨水屏	mo	ping	e-ink screen; e-paper display
墨水瓶架	mo	jia	inkstand
墨江县	mo	xian	see 墨江哈尼族自治縣|墨江哈尼族自治县[Mo4 jiang1 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
墨江哈尼族自治县	mo	xian	Mojiang Hani Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
墨玉县	mo	xian	Karakax, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
墨竹工卡	mo	ka	see 墨竹工卡縣|墨竹工卡县[Mo4 zhu2 gong1 ka3 Xian4]
墨竹工卡县	mo	xian	Maizhokunggar, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
墨索里尼	mo	ni	Benito Mussolini (1883-1945), Italian fascist dictator, "Il Duce", president 1922-1943
墨累达令流域	mo	yu	Murray-Darling river system in the southeast of Australia
墨绿色	mo	se	dark or deep green
墨脱县	mo	xian	Mêdog, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
墨西哥	mo	ge	Mexico
墨西哥人	mo	ren	Mexican
墨西哥卷饼	mo	bing	burrito; taco
墨西哥城	mo	cheng	Mexico City, capital of Mexico
墨西哥湾	mo	wan	Gulf of Mexico
墨西哥辣椒	mo	jiao	jalapeño
墨西拿	mo	na	Messina, Sicilian city
墨西拿海峡	mo	xia	Strait of Messina between Calabria and Sicily
墨角兰	mo	lan	marjoram (Origanum majorana)
壁垒一新	bi	xin	to have one's defenses in good order (idiom)
壁垒森严	bi	yan	closely guarded; strongly fortified; sharply divided
壁效应	bi	ying	wall effect
壁立千仞	bi	ren	(idiom) (of a cliff, mountain etc) steep; lofty; imposing
壁网球	bi	qiu	jai alai (sports)
壤塘县	rang	xian	Zamthang, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
士丹利	shi	li	Stanley (name)
士农工商	shi	shang	(idiom) "the four classes" of ancient China, i.e. scholars, farmers, artisans, and merchants
士力架	shi	jia	Snickers (candy bar)
士多啤梨	shi	li	(HK) (loanword) strawberry
士大夫	shi	fu	scholar officials
士巴拿	shi	na	(dialect) spanner (loanword)
士师记	shi	ji	Book of Judges
士敏土	shi	tu	cement (loanword) (old)
士林区	shi	qu	Shilin or Shihlin District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
壬辰倭乱	ren	luan	Imjin war, Japanese invasion of Korea 1592-1598
壮起胆子	zhuang	zi	to proceed with sth even though scared; to put on a brave face
声东击西	sheng	xi	to threaten the east and strike to the west (idiom); to create a diversion
声名大噪	sheng	zao	to rise to fame
声名大震	sheng	zhen	to create a sensation
声名狼藉	sheng	ji	to have a bad reputation
声名鹊起	sheng	qi	(idiom) to rise to fame
声嘶力竭	sheng	jie	to shout oneself hoarse (idiom)
声情并茂	sheng	mao	(of a singer etc) excellent in voice and expression (idiom)
声旁字	sheng	zi	character serving as sound value of another character; phonetic
声明书	sheng	shu	statement
声波定位	sheng	wei	sonic location system (esp. underwater sonar); acoustic positioning
声泪俱下	sheng	xia	to shed tears while recounting sth; speaking in a tearful voice
声索国	sheng	guo	claimant country (in a territorial dispute)
声色场所	sheng	suo	red-light district
声色犬马	sheng	ma	(lit.) music, women, dogs and horses (traditional aristocratic amusements, with dogs and horses referring to activities such as hunting and riding) (idiom); (fig.) wine, women and song; dissolute pleasures; a life of sensual indulgence
声调语言	sheng	yan	tonal language (e.g. Chinese or Vietnamese)
声调轮廓	sheng	kuo	tone contour
声韵学	sheng	xue	phonetics
壳牌公司	qiao	si	Shell (oil company)
壳郎猪	ke	zhu	(coll.) feeder pig
壶关县	hu	xian	Huguan, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
处世之道	chu	dao	way of life; attitude; modus operandi
处世原则	chu	ze	a maxim; one's principles
处之泰然	chu	ran	see 泰然處之|泰然处之[tai4 ran2 chu3 zhi1]
处事原则	chu	ze	a maxim; one's principles
处变不惊	chu	jing	to remain calm in the face of events (idiom)
处堂燕雀	chu	que	lit. a caged bird in a pavilion (idiom); fig. to lose vigilance by comfortable living; unaware of the disasters ahead; a fool's paradise
处女作	chu	zuo	first publication; maiden work
处女座	chu	zuo	Virgo (constellation and sign of the zodiac); popular variant of 室女座[Shi4 nu:3 zuo4]
处女膜	chu	mo	hymen
处女航	chu	hang	maiden voyage
处子秀	chu	xiu	debut (by a male performer or sports player)
处心积虑	chu	lv	to plot actively (idiom); scheming; calculating
处方药	chu	yao	prescription drug
处理器	chu	qi	processor
处理者	chu	zhe	handler (computing)
处理能力	chu	li	processing capability; throughput
备尝艰苦	bei	ku	see 備嘗辛苦|备尝辛苦[bei4 chang2 xin1 ku3]
备尝辛苦	bei	ku	(idiom) to have suffered all kinds of hardships
备忘录	bei	lu	memorandum; aide-memoire; memorandum book
备注栏	bei	lan	remarks column
备用二级头呼吸器	bei	qi	(scuba diving) backup regulator; octopus
备用环	bei	huan	backup ring
备而不用	bei	yong	have sth ready just in case; keep sth for possible future use
复共轭	fu	e	(math.) complex conjugate
复兴党	fu	dang	Baath Party
复兴区	fu	qu	Fuxing, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
复兴时代	fu	dai	the Renaissance
复兴门	fu	men	Fuxingmen neighborhood of Beijing
复写纸	fu	zhi	carbon paper
复分解反应	fu	ying	metathesis (chemistry)
复制品	fu	pin	replica; reproduction
复印件	fu	jian	photocopy; duplicate
复印机	fu	ji	photocopier
复印纸	fu	zhi	photocopier paper
复原乳	fu	ru	reconstituted milk
复变函数	fu	shu	function of a complex variable (math.)
复变函数论	fu	lun	(math.) theory of functions of a complex variable
复古会	fu	hui	anti-Qing revolutionary party set up in 1904 under Cai Yuanpei 蔡元培[Cai4 Yuan2 pei2]; aka 光復會|光复会[Guang1 fu4 hui4]
复合元音	fu	yin	diphthong (such as putonghua ɑi, ei etc)
复合弓	fu	gong	composite bow (archery)
复合材料	fu	liao	composite material
复合母音	fu	yin	diphthong; compound vowel
复合肥	fu	fei	compound fertilizer
复合词	fu	ci	compound word
复平面	fu	mian	complex plane
复数域	fu	yu	field of complex numbers (math.), usually denoted by C
复数平面	fu	mian	(math.) complex plane; Argand plane
复数形式	fu	shi	plural form (of a countable noun)
复旦大学	fu	xue	Fudan University, Shanghai
复映片	fu	pian	second-run movie
复杂化	fu	hua	to complicate; to become complicated
复杂性	fu	xing	complexity
复杂系统	fu	tong	complex system
复殖吸虫	fu	chong	digenetic trematode worm (i.e. from Order Digenea 複殖目|复殖目)
复殖目	fu	mu	Order Digenea (including trematode worms that parasite humans)
复活节	fu	jie	Easter
复活节岛	fu	dao	Easter Island
复活赛	fu	sai	repechage (supplementary qualifying round in sports)
复理石	fu	shi	flysch (loanword)
复读生	fu	sheng	student who repeats (a course, grade etc) at school
复选框	fu	kuang	check box
复音形	fu	xing	diphthong; liaison
复音词	fu	ci	disyllabic word; polysyllabic word
复韵母	fu	mu	compound final
夏令时	xia	shi	daylight saving time
夏令营	xia	ying	summer camp
夏克提	xia	ti	Shakti (Hinduism)
夏商周	xia	zhou	Xia, Shang and Zhou, the earliest named Chinese dynasties
夏士莲	xia	lian	Hazeline, Unilever range of skin care products
夏奥会	xia	hui	the Summer Olympic Games; the Summer Olympics
夏威夷	xia	yi	Hawaii, US state
夏威夷岛	xia	dao	Hawaiʻi, largest island of the Hawaiian archipelago
夏威夷果	xia	guo	macadamia nut
夏威夷火山国家公园	xia	yuan	Hawaii Volcanoes National Park
夏威夷群岛	xia	dao	Hawaiian Islands
夏尔巴人	xia	ren	Sherpa
夏敬渠	xia	qu	Xia Jingqu (1705-1787), Qing novelist, author of monumental novel 野叟曝言[Ye3 sou3 Pu4 yan2] Humble Words of a Rustic Elder
夏时制	xia	zhi	daylight saving time
夏正民	xia	min	Justice Michael Hartmann (1944-), Hong Kong High Court judge
夏河县	xia	xian	Xiahe, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
夏洛克	xia	ke	Shylock (in Shakespeare's Merchant of Venice); Sherlock (name)
夏洛特	xia	te	Charlotte (name)
夏洛特敦	xia	dun	Charlottetown, capital of Prince Edward Island, Canada
夏洛特阿马利亚	xia	ya	Charlotte Amalie, capital of the United States Virgin Islands (USVI)
夏津县	xia	xian	Xiajin, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
夏王朝	xia	chao	Xia dynasty, unconfirmed but placed at c. 2070-c. 1600 BC
夏目漱石	xia	shi	Natsume Sōseki (1867-1916), one of the first modern Japanese novelists
夏至点	xia	dian	the summer solstice
夏虫不可以语冰	xia	bing	a summer insect cannot discuss ice (idiom)
夏邑县	xia	xian	Xiayi, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
夏黄公	xia	gong	Xia Huanggong also known as Huang Shigong 黃石公|黄石公[Huang2 Shi2 gong1] (dates of birth and death uncertain), Daoist hermit of the Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] and purported author of “Three Strategies of Huang Shigong” 黃石公三略|黄石公三略[Huang2 Shi2 gong1 San1 lu:e4], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
夕发朝至	xi	zhi	to depart in the evening and arrive the next morning; overnight (train)
夕阳产业	xi	ye	sunset industry; declining industry
夕阳西下	xi	xia	the sun sets in the west (idiom)
外东北	wai	bei	see 外滿洲|外满洲[Wai4 Man3 zhou1]
外乡人	wai	ren	a stranger; out-of-towner
外事处	wai	chu	Foreign Affairs Office (at a university); Foreign Affairs Department
外交事务	wai	wu	foreign affairs
外交关系	wai	xi	foreign relations; diplomatic relations
外交关系理事会	wai	hui	Council on Foreign Relations (US policy think tank)
外交大臣	wai	chen	Foreign Secretary; (UK) Secretary of State for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs
外交学院	wai	yuan	China Foreign Affairs University, located in Beijing
外交官	wai	guan	diplomat
外交家	wai	jia	diplomat
外交庇护	wai	hu	diplomatic asylum
外交手腕	wai	wan	diplomatic skills
外交政策	wai	ce	foreign policy
外交特权	wai	quan	diplomatic immunity
外交豁免权	wai	quan	diplomatic immunity
外交部	wai	bu	Ministry of Foreign Affairs; foreign office; Dept. of State
外交部长	wai	zhang	minister of foreign affairs
外交风波	wai	bo	diplomatic crisis
外侧沟	wai	gou	lateral sulcus or Sylvian fissure (neuroanatomy)
外侧裂	wai	lie	lateral sulcus or Sylvian fissure (neuroanatomy)
外八字脚	wai	jiao	splayed feet
外八字腿	wai	tui	bow legs; bandy legs
外出访问	wai	wen	to make an official visit (often abroad)
外分泌	wai	mi	exocrine; external secretion (e.g. saliva)
外分泌腺	wai	xian	exocrine gland; gland producing external secretion (e.g. saliva)
外刚内柔	wai	rou	soft on the inside despite one's hard shell; appearing tough on the outside as to mask one's inner vulnerability; also written 內柔外剛|内柔外刚[nei4 rou2 wai4 gang1]
外加剂	wai	ji	additive
外加附件	wai	jian	add-on (software); plug-in (software)
外务省	wai	sheng	foreign ministry (e.g. of Japan or Korea)
外务部	wai	bu	Ministry of Foreign Affairs in Qing Dynasty
外卖员	wai	yuan	food delivery person
外向型	wai	xing	export-oriented (economic model)
外商独资企业	wai	ye	wholly foreign-owned enterprise (WFOE) (form of legal entity in China); abbr. to 外資企業|外资企业[wai4 zi1 qi3 ye4]
外商直接投资	wai	zi	overseas foreign direct investment (OFDI)
外国人	wai	ren	foreigner
外国话	wai	hua	foreign languages
外国语	wai	yu	foreign language
外国资本	wai	ben	foreign capital
外圆内方	wai	fang	lit. outside-flexible, inside-firm (idiom); fig. velvet glove
外在超越	wai	yue	outer transcendence (perfection through the agency of God)
外地人	wai	ren	stranger; outsider
外场人	wai	ren	sophisticated, worldly person; man of the world
外太空	wai	kong	outer space
外孙女	wai	nv	daughter's daughter; granddaughter
外孙女儿	wai	r	granddaughter (one's daughter's daughter)
外孙子	wai	zi	(coll.) daughter's son; grandson
外宽内忌	wai	ji	magnanimous on the outside, but hateful on the inside (idiom)
外层空间	wai	jian	outer space
外展训练	wai	lian	outdoor education program
外强中干	wai	gan	strong in appearance but weak in reality (idiom)
外挂程式	wai	shi	plug-in (software) (Tw)
外接圆	wai	yuan	circumscribed circle (of a polygon)
外推法	wai	fa	extrapolation (math.); to extrapolate
外搭程式	wai	shi	add-on software (Tw)
外文系	wai	xi	department of foreign languages; modern languages (college department)
外斜肌	wai	ji	external oblique muscle (sides of the chest)
外星人	wai	ren	space alien; extraterrestrial
外显子	wai	zi	(genetics) an exon
外显性	wai	xing	(genetics) penetrance
外显率	wai	lv	(genetics) penetrance
外来人	wai	ren	foreigner
外来娃	wai	wa	children born to parents from rural areas who have migrated to urban areas
外来投资	wai	zi	foreign investment
外来物种	wai	zhong	an introduced species
外来词	wai	ci	loanword
外来语	wai	yu	loanword
外来货	wai	huo	imported product
外汇储备	wai	bei	foreign-exchange reserves
外汇存底	wai	di	foreign exchange reserves (Tw)
外源凝集素	wai	su	(biochemistry) lectin
外满洲	wai	zhou	Outer Manchuria (the historical name for the part of Russia near northeastern China that was ceded to the Russian Empire in the mid-19th century)
外激素	wai	su	pheromone
外照射	wai	she	external irradiation
外环线	wai	xian	outer ring (road or rail line)
外甥女	wai	nv	sister's daughter; wife's sibling's daughter
外甥女婿	wai	xu	sister's daughter's husband
外甥媳妇	wai	fu	sister's son's wife
外眼角	wai	jiao	outer corner of the eye
外祖母	wai	mu	mother's mother; maternal grandmother
外祖父	wai	fu	maternal grandfather (i.e. mother's father)
外科医生	wai	sheng	surgeon; as opposed to physician 內科醫生|内科医生[nei4 ke1 yi1 sheng1], who works primarily by administering drugs
外科学	wai	xue	surgery
外科手术	wai	shu	surgery
外管局	wai	ju	State Administration of Foreign Exchange (abbr. for 國家外匯管理局|国家外汇管理局[Guo2 jia1 Wai4 hui4 Guan3 li3 ju2])
外籍劳工	wai	gong	foreign worker
外籍华人	wai	ren	overseas Chinese; persons of Chinese origin having foreign citizenship
外耳道	wai	dao	external auditory meatus; auditory canal, between the outer ear 外耳 and tympanum 鼓膜
外胚层	wai	ceng	ectoderm (cell lineage in embryology)
外蒙古	wai	gu	Outer Mongolia
外观设计	wai	ji	look; external appearance; design
外貌主义	wai	yi	lookism
外貌协会	wai	hui	the "good-looks club": people who attach great importance to a person's appearance (pun on 外貿協會|外贸协会 foreign trade association)
外质膜	wai	mo	external plasma membrane
外贸协会	wai	hui	Taiwan External Trade Development Council (TAITRA), abbr. for 中華民國對外貿易發展協會|中华民国对外贸易发展协会
外资企业	wai	ye	abbr. for 外商獨資企業|外商独资企业[wai4 shang1 du2 zi1 qi3 ye4]
外边儿	wai	r	erhua variant of 外邊|外边[wai4 bian5]
外邦人	wai	ren	gentile
外部连结	wai	jie	(Tw, HK) external link
外部链接	wai	jie	external link (on a website)
外郭城	wai	cheng	outer city wall
外野手	wai	shou	(baseball) outfielder
外错角	wai	jiao	(math.) alternate exterior angles
外飞地	wai	di	enclave (foreign land inside us); (Tw) exclave (our land outside us)
外食族	wai	zu	people who regularly eat out
外骨骼	wai	ge	(zoology) exoskeleton
外高加索	wai	suo	Transcaucasia, aka the South Caucasus
夙兴夜寐	su	mei	to rise early and sleep late (idiom); to work hard; to study diligently; to burn the candle at both ends
夙夜匪懈	su	xie	to work from morning to night (idiom)
夙愿以偿	su	chang	a long-cherished ambition is realized
夙愿得偿	su	chang	to have a long-cherished wish realized
多一事不如少一事	duo	shi	it is better to avoid unnecessary trouble (idiom); the less complications the better
多个朋友多条路	duo	lu	the more friends you have, the more options you have in life (idiom)
多义性	duo	xing	equivocality
多义词	duo	ci	polyseme; polysemous word
多了去了	duo	le	(coll.) aplenty; millions of
多事之秋	duo	qiu	(idiom) troubled times; eventful period
多任务处理	duo	li	multitasking (computing)
多伊尔	duo	er	Doyle (name)
多伦县	duo	xian	Duolun, a county in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
多伦多	duo	duo	Toronto, capital of Ontario, Canada
多佛尔	duo	er	Dover
多侧面	duo	mian	many-sided
多倍体	duo	ti	polyploid (multiple chromosomes)
多值函数	duo	shu	multivalued function (math.)
多元不饱和脂肪酸	duo	suan	polyunsaturated fatty acid
多元化	duo	hua	diversification; pluralism; to diversify
多元宇宙	duo	zhou	multiverse (cosmology)
多元性	duo	xing	diversity
多元文化主义	duo	yi	multiculturalism
多元论	duo	lun	pluralism, philosophical doctrine that the universe consists of different substances
多元酯	duo	zhi	polyester
多党制	duo	zhi	multiparty system
多党选举	duo	ju	multiparty election
多力多滋	duo	zi	Doritos (brand of tortilla chips)
多功能	duo	neng	multifunctional; multifunction
多功能表	duo	biao	multifunction meter (e.g. for gas and electricity supply)
多动症	duo	zheng	(coll.) attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
多劳多得	duo	de	work more and get more
多发性硬化症	duo	zheng	multiple sclerosis
多发性骨髓瘤	duo	liu	(medicine) multiple myeloma
多发病	duo	bing	frequently reoccurring disease
多吃多占	duo	zhan	taking or eating more than one's due (idiom); greedy and selfish
多吉币	duo	bi	Dogecoin (cryptocurrency)
多哈回合	duo	he	Doha Round (world trade talks that began in Doha, Qatar in 2001)
多嘴多舌	duo	she	to gossip and meddle; to shoot one's mouth off; talkative
多囊卵巢综合症	duo	zheng	polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
多国公司	duo	si	multinational corporation
多多少少	duo	shao	to some extent; more or less
多多益善	duo	shan	the more the better
多多马	duo	ma	Dodoma, capital of Tanzania
多大点事	duo	shi	trivial matter; Big deal!
多头市场	duo	chang	bull market
多如牛毛	duo	mao	(lit.) as numerous as the hairs of an ox (idiom); (fig.) innumerable; countless
多妻制	duo	zhi	polygyny
多姿多彩	duo	cai	diversity (of forms and colors)
多媒体	duo	ti	multimedia
多子多福	duo	fu	the more sons, the more happiness (idiom)
多孔动物	duo	wu	Porifera (phylum of sponges)
多孔动物门	duo	men	(zoology) phylum Porifera (sponges)
多孔性	duo	xing	porous; having many holes (e.g. filter gauze or sieve)
多字节	duo	jie	multibyte
多学科	duo	ke	interdisciplinary
多宝鱼	duo	yu	turbot; European imported turbot; same as 大菱鮃|大菱鲆
多少有些	duo	xie	somewhat; more or less
多尔衮	duo	gun	Dorgon (1612-1651), fourteenth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], successful general, instrumental in Manchu conquest of China, ruled China as regent 1644-1650 for his nephew Emperor Shunzhi 順治帝|顺治帝[Shun4 zhi4 di4]
多层大厦	duo	sha	multistory building
多层材	duo	cai	plywood
多工作业	duo	ye	multitasking
多工化	duo	hua	to multiplex
多工器	duo	qi	multiplexer
多工运作	duo	zuo	multithreading
多巴胺	duo	an	dopamine
多幕剧	duo	ju	play in several acts; full-length drama
多平台	duo	tai	multi-platform (computing)
多年媳妇熬成婆	duo	po	see 媳婦熬成婆|媳妇熬成婆[xi2 fu4 ao4 cheng2 po2]
多年来	duo	lai	for the past many years
多年生	duo	sheng	(botany) (of a plant) perennial
多形核白细胞	duo	bao	polymorphonuclear leukocyte
多彩多姿	duo	zi	elegant and graceful posture; splendid, full of content
多得是	duo	shi	there's no shortage; there are plenty
多愁善感	duo	gan	(idiom) emotionally sensitive and prone to melancholy
多愁多病	duo	bing	much sorrows and illness (idiom); melancholy and weakly
多手多脚	duo	jiao	to meddle; to make a nuisance of oneself
多才多艺	duo	yi	multitalented
多拿滋	duo	zi	doughnut (loanword)
多数党	duo	dang	majority party
多数决	duo	jue	majority decision
多方位	duo	wei	many-sided; versatile; various aspects
多方面	duo	mian	many-sided; in many aspects
多日赛	duo	sai	race of several days; many day competition
多早晚	duo	wan	when?
多明尼加	duo	jia	(Tw) Dominican Republic
多明尼加共和国	duo	guo	(Tw) Dominican Republic
多普勒	duo	le	Christian Johann Doppler, Austrian physicist who discovered the Doppler effect
多普勒效应	duo	ying	the Doppler effect
多普达	duo	da	Dopod (company name)
多晶片模组	duo	zu	multi-chip module (MCM)
多晶硅	duo	gui	polycrystalline silicon (used in electronics)
多极化	duo	hua	multipolar; multipolarization
多样化	duo	hua	diversification; to diversify
多样性	duo	xing	variegation; diversity
多栽花少栽刺	duo	ci	talk nicely and avoid disputes; give compliments and not remarks
多模光纤	duo	xian	multimode fiber
多模块	duo	kuai	many modules; multiblock
多此一举	duo	ju	to do more than is required (idiom); superfluous; gilding the lily
多民族	duo	zu	multiethnic
多民族国家	duo	jia	multiethnic state
多氯联苯	duo	ben	polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB)
多水分	duo	fen	juicy
多灾多难	duo	nan	to be plagued with misfortunes; precarious
多点触控	duo	kong	multi-touch (computing)
多特蒙德	duo	de	Dortmund, city in the Ruhr 魯爾區|鲁尔区[Lu3 er3 Qu1], Germany
多瑙河	duo	he	Danube
多瓣蒜	duo	suan	Chinese elephant garlic
多用户	duo	hu	multiuser
多用表	duo	biao	multimeter
多用途	duo	tu	multipurpose
多目的	duo	di	multipurpose
多看几眼	duo	yan	to take a closer look; to look at (sb or sth) a few more times
多神教	duo	jiao	polytheistic religion; polytheism
多神论	duo	lun	polytheism
多神论者	duo	zhe	polytheist
多种多样	duo	yang	manifold; all sorts; many and varied
多种维生素	duo	su	multivitamin
多站地址	duo	zhi	multicast address; multistation address
多管闲事	duo	shi	meddling in other people's business
多米尼克	duo	ke	Dominica (Commonwealth of Dominica)
多米尼克国	duo	guo	Commonwealth of Dominica
多米尼加	duo	jia	Dominican Republic
多米尼加共和国	duo	guo	Dominican Republic
多米诺	duo	nuo	(loanword) domino
多米诺骨牌	duo	pai	dominoes
多粒子	duo	zi	many-particle (physics)
多线染色体	duo	ti	polytene chromosome
多细胞	duo	bao	multicellular
多细胞生物	duo	wu	multicellular organism
多肉植物	duo	wu	succulent (plant)
多胎妊娠	duo	shen	multiple pregnancy
多胞形	duo	xing	polytope
多菲什	duo	shi	dogfish (loanword)
多行不义必自毙	duo	bi	persisting in evil brings about self-destruction (idiom)
多角体	duo	ti	polyhedron
多角形	duo	xing	polygon; same as 多邊形|多边形
多语言	duo	yan	multilingual
多谋善断	duo	duan	(idiom) resourceful and decisive; resolute and sagacious
多足动物	duo	wu	myriapod; centipedes and millipedes
多足类	duo	lei	centipedes and millipedes
多边主义	duo	yi	multilateralism
多边形	duo	xing	polygon
多退少补	duo	bu	(after a sum has been paid in advance) to refund (in case of overpayment) or be reimbursed (in case of underpayment)
多选题	duo	ti	multiple-choice question
多那太罗	duo	luo	Donatello (c. 1386-1466); Donato di Niccolò di Betto Bardi, famous early Renaissance painter and sculptor
多邻国	duo	guo	Duolingo, a language-learning platform founded in 2011
多重国籍	duo	ji	dual nationality
多重性	duo	xing	multiplicity
多重结局	duo	ju	alternate ending; multiple endings
多钱善贾	duo	gu	much capital, good business (idiom); fig. good trading conditions
多铧犁	duo	li	multishare or multifurrow plow
多闻天	duo	tian	Vaisravana (one of the Heavenly Kings)
多难兴邦	duo	bang	much hardships may awaken a nation (idiom); calamity that prompts renewal
多面体	duo	ti	polyhedron
多面手	duo	shou	multitalented person; versatile person; all-rounder
多面角	duo	jiao	solid angle
多音多义字	duo	zi	character having several readings and meanings
多音字	duo	zi	character with two or more readings
多音节词	duo	ci	polysyllabic word; Chinese word made up of three or more characters
多项式	duo	shi	(math.) polynomial; multinomial
多项式方程	duo	cheng	(math.) polynomial equation
多项式方程组	duo	zu	(math.) system of polynomial equations
多香果	duo	guo	allspice; Jamaican pepper (Pimenta dioica)
夜不归宿	ye	su	to stay out all night (idiom)
夜不成眠	ye	mian	to be unable to sleep at night
夜不闭户	ye	hu	lit. doors not locked at night (idiom); fig. stable society
夜以继日	ye	ri	night and day (idiom); continuous strenuous effort
夜大学	ye	xue	evening college
夜宵儿	ye	r	erhua variant of 夜宵[ye4 xiao1]
夜幕低垂	ye	chui	darkness fell (falls, had fallen etc)
夜幕降临	ye	lin	nightfall
夜床服务	ye	wu	(hospitality industry) turndown service
夜开花	ye	hua	bottle gourd (i.e. 瓠瓜[hu4 gua1])
夜总会	ye	hui	nightclub; nightspot
夜来香	ye	xiang	tuberose (Agave amica); night-blooming jessamine (Cestrum nocturnum) (aka 夜香木[ye4 xiang1 mu4])
夜深人静	ye	jing	in the dead of night (idiom)
夜游症	ye	zheng	somnambulism; sleepwalking
夜猫子	ye	zi	owl; (fig.) night owl
夜生活	ye	huo	night life
夜盆儿	ye	r	chamber pot
夜盲症	ye	zheng	night blindness; nyctalopia
夜神仙	ye	xian	night owl; late sleeper
夜色苍茫	ye	mang	gathering dusk
夜行军	ye	jun	a night march
夜行性	ye	xing	nocturnality; nocturnal
夜行昼伏	ye	fu	to travel at night and lie low by day (idiom)
夜视仪	ye	yi	night vision device
夜视镜	ye	jing	night vision device
夜郎自大	ye	da	lit. Yelang thinks highly of itself (idiom); fig. foolish conceit
夜间部	ye	bu	(Tw) evening program (at a college); night school
夜阑人静	ye	jing	the still of the night (idiom); late at night
夜阑珊	ye	shan	late at night
夜香木	ye	mu	night-blooming jessamine (Cestrum nocturnum)
够不着	gou	zhao	to be unable to reach
够受的	gou	de	to be quite an ordeal; to be hard to bear
够得上	gou	shang	to be good enough to be regarded as; to meet the standard expected of
够得着	gou	zhao	to reach (with one's hand etc); (fig.) to attain (an objective)
够意思	gou	si	wonderful; great; delightful
够朋友	gou	you	(coll.) to be a true friend
夤缘攀附	yin	fu	to cling to the rich and powerful (idiom); to advance one's career by currying favor; social climbing
大一些	da	xie	a bit bigger
大一统	da	tong	unification (of the nation); large scale unification
大一统志	da	zhi	Da Yuan Dayitongzhi, Yuan dynasty geographical encyclopedia, compiled 1285-1294 under Jamal al-Din 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁 and Yu Yinglong 虞應龍|虞应龙, 755 scrolls
大丈夫	da	fu	a manly man; a man of character
大丈夫能屈能伸	da	shen	A leader can submit or can stand tall as required.; ready to give and take; flexible
大三和弦	da	xian	major triad do-mi-so
大三度	da	du	major third (musical interval)
大不了	da	liao	at worst; if worst comes to worst; (usu. in the negative) serious; alarming
大不列蹀	da	die	(dialect) full of oneself; too big for one's boots
大不列颠	da	dian	Great Britain
大不如前	da	qian	a lot worse than it used to be
大不相同	da	tong	not at all the same; substantially different
大不里士	da	shi	Tabriz city in northwest Iran, capital of Iranian East Azerbaijan
大不韪	da	wei	great error; heinous crime
大东亚共荣圈	da	quan	Great East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere, Japanese wartime slogan for their short-lived Pacific Empire, first enunciated by Prime Minister Prince KONOE Fumimaro 近衛文麿|近卫文麿 in 1938
大东区	da	qu	Dadong, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
大个儿	da	r	(coll.) tall person
大中华	da	hua	Greater China; refers to China, Taiwan, Hong Kong and Macau (esp. in finance and economics); refers to all areas of Chinese presence (esp. in the cultural field), including parts of Southeast Asia, Europe and the Americas
大中学生	da	sheng	university and high school students
大丰区	da	qu	Dafeng, a district of Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
大丹犬	da	quan	Great Dane (dog breed)
大主教	da	jiao	archbishop; primate (of a church); metropolitan
大丽花	da	hua	dahlia (loanword)
大久保	da	bao	Japanese surname and place name Ōkubo
大久保利通	da	tong	Oukubo Toshimichi (1830-1878), Japanese politician
大义凛然	da	ran	devotion to righteousness that inspires reverence (idiom)
大义灭亲	da	qin	to place righteousness before family (idiom); ready to punish one's own family if justice demands it
大乌苏里岛	da	dao	Bolshoi Ussuriisk Island in the Heilongjiang or Amur river, at mouth of the Ussuri River opposite Khabarovsk; same as Heixiazi Island 黑瞎子島|黑瞎子岛[Hei1 xia1 zi5 Dao3]
大乌鸦	da	ya	a raven
大事化小小事化了	da	liao	to turn big problems into small ones, and small problems into no problems at all (idiom)
大五码	da	ma	Big5 Chinese character coding (developed by Taiwanese companies from 1984)
大五趾跳鼠	da	shu	great jerboa (Allactaga major)
大亚湾	da	wan	Daya Bay, located on the coast of Guangdong, near Shenzhen and Hong Kong
大人不记小人过	da	guo	a person of great moral stature does not remember the offenses committed by one of low moral stature
大仙鹟	da	weng	(bird species of China) large niltava (Niltava grandis)
大仲马	da	ma	Alexandre Dumas, père (1802-1870), French writer
大众传播	da	bo	mass communication
大众化	da	hua	mass-oriented; to cater for the masses; popularized
大众捷运	da	yun	mass rapid transit MRT
大众汽车	da	che	Volkswagen
大众运输	da	shu	public transport (Tw)
大众部	da	bu	Mahasanghika (branch of Buddhism)
大伙儿	da	r	erhua variant of 大伙[da4 huo3]
大伤元气	da	qi	to ruin one's constitution
大伦敦地区	da	qu	Greater London; London region, England
大伯子	da	zi	(coll.) husband's elder brother
大体上	da	shang	overall; in general terms
大体老师	da	shi	cadaver for dissection in training medical students
大体解剖学	da	xue	(medicine) gross anatomy
大余县	da	xian	Dayu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
大使级	da	ji	ambassadorial
大使馆	da	guan	embassy; CL:座[zuo4],個|个[ge4]
大便干燥	da	zao	constipated
大便秘结	da	jie	constipation
大修道院	da	yuan	abbey; large monastery or convent
大修道院长	da	zhang	abbot
大元大一统志	da	zhi	Da Yuan Dayitongzhi, Yuan dynasty geographical encyclopedia, compiled 1285-1294 under Jamal al-Din 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁 and Yu Yinglong 虞應龍|虞应龙, 755 scrolls
大元帅	da	shuai	generalissimo
大先知书	da	shu	the biblical books of the prophets
大公司	da	si	large company; corporation
大公国	da	guo	grand duchy
大公国际	da	ji	Dagong Global Credit Rating, credit rating agency based in China
大公报	da	bao	Dagong Bao, popular newspaper name; Ta Kung Pao, newspaper founded 1902 in Beijing, now published in Hong Kong
大公无私	da	si	selfless; impartial
大关县	da	xian	Daguan, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
大兴区	da	qu	Daxing, a district of Beijing
大兴土木	da	mu	to carry out large scale construction
大兴安岭	da	ling	see 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1]; see 大興安嶺山脈|大兴安岭山脉[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Shan1 mai4]
大兴安岭地区	da	qu	Daxing'anling, prefecture in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
大兴安岭山脉	da	mai	Daxing'anling mountain range in northwest Heilongjiang province
大兴机场	da	chang	Beijing Daxing International Airport (PKX), nicknamed 海星機場|海星机场[hai3 xing1 ji1 chang3] because its terminal looks like a huge starfish
大兴问罪之师	da	shi	to launch a punitive campaign; to condemn scathingly
大写字母	da	mu	capital letters; uppercase letters
大写锁定	da	ding	caps lock
大军区	da	qu	PLA military region
大农场	da	chang	ranch
大冰期	da	qi	ice age
大冶市	da	shi	Daye, a county-level city in Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
大冷天	da	tian	freezing cold day
大凤头燕鸥	da	ou	(bird species of China) greater crested tern (Thalasseus bergii)
大出血	da	xue	to hemorrhage; (fig.) to make a huge loss (in selling sth); to spend a huge sum
大刀会	da	hui	Great Sword Society, an offshoot of the White Lotus in the late Qing dynasty, involved in anti-Western activity at the time of the Boxer rebellion
大刀阔斧	da	fu	bold and decisive
大分子	da	zi	macromolecule (chemistry)
大分界岭	da	ling	Great Dividing Range, mountain range along the east coast of Australia
大列巴	da	ba	big Russian-style bread (loanword from Russian "хлеб")
大利拉	da	la	(Protestantism) Delilah
大别山	da	shan	Dabie mountain range on the borders of Henan, Anhui and Hubei provinces
大剌剌	da	la	pompous; with a swagger; casual
大前天	da	tian	three days ago
大前年	da	nian	three years ago
大前提	da	ti	major premise
大力士	da	shi	strong man; Hercules
大力水手	da	shou	Popeye (the Sailor)
大力神	da	shen	Heracles (Greek mythology); Hercules (Roman mythology)
大力神杯	da	bei	FIFA World Cup trophy
大力钳	da	qian	locking pliers; mole grips
大功告成	da	cheng	successfully accomplished (project or goal); to be highly successful
大加那利岛	da	dao	Gran Canaria (in the Canary Islands)
大动干戈	da	ge	lit. to go to war (idiom); fig. to make a big fuss over sth
大动肝火	da	huo	(idiom) to fly into a rage; to lose one's temper
大动脉	da	mai	main artery (blood vessel); fig. main highway; arterial road
大势所趋	da	qu	(idiom) the prevailing trend; the trend of the times; an inevitable direction
大势至菩萨	da	sa	(Buddhism) Mahasthamaprapta, the Great Strength Bodhisattva
大勇若怯	da	qie	a great hero may appear timid (idiom); the really brave person remains level-headed
大勇若怯大智若愚	da	yu	a great hero may appear timid, the wise may appear stupid (idiom); the general public may not recognize great talent
大包大揽	da	lan	to take complete charge (idiom)
大化县	da	xian	see 大化瑤族自治縣|大化瑶族自治县[Da4 hua4 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
大化瑶族自治县	da	xian	Dahua Yao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
大千世界	da	jie	great wide world; marvelously diverse world; (Buddhism) cosmos (abbr. for 三千大千世界[san1 qian1 da4 qian1 shi4 jie4])
大半夜	da	ye	the middle of the night
大卖场	da	chang	hypermarket; large warehouse-like self-service retail store
大卫营和约	da	yue	the Camp David agreement of 1978 brokered by President Jimmy Carter between Israel and Egypt
大厂县	da	xian	see 大廠回族自治縣|大厂回族自治县[Da4 chang3 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
大厂回族自治县	da	xian	Dachang Hui Autonomous County, in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
大厦将倾	da	qing	great mansion on the verge of collapse (idiom); hopeless situation
大发雷霆	da	ting	to be furious; to fly into a terrible rage
大口径	da	jing	large-caliber; large-bore
大可不必	da	bi	need not; unnecessary
大叶性肺炎	da	yan	lobar pneumonia
大司农	da	nong	minister responsible for agriculture and state granaries in imperial China
大吃一惊	da	jing	(idiom) astounded; flabbergasted; taken aback
大吃二喝	da	he	to eat and drink extravagantly; to binge
大吃大喝	da	he	to eat and drink as much as one likes; to make a pig of oneself
大吃特吃	da	chi	to gorge oneself with food
大合唱	da	chang	cantata; chorus
大吉大利	da	li	great luck, great profit (idiom); everything is thriving
大吉岭	da	ling	Darjeeling, town in India
大同乡	da	xiang	person from the same province
大同区	da	qu	Datong or Tatung District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan; Datong District of Daqing City 大慶|大庆[Da4 qing4], Heilongjiang
大同小异	da	yi	virtually the same; differing only on small points
大同市	da	shi	Datong, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
大名县	da	xian	Daming, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
大名鼎鼎	da	ding	grand reputation; renowned; famous
大后天	da	tian	three days from now
大后年	da	nian	three years from now; year after year after next year
大吞噬细胞	da	bao	macrophage
大吵大闹	da	nao	to shout and scream (idiom); to kick up a fuss; to make a scene
大吹大擂	da	lei	to make an exhibition of oneself; ostentation
大呼小叫	da	jiao	to shout and quarrel; to make a big fuss
大呼拉尔	da	er	State Great Khural or Great State Assembly, Mongolian parliament
大哥大	da	da	cell phone (bulky, early-model one); brick phone; mob boss
大唐狄公案	da	an	Three Murder Cases Solved by Judge Dee, 1949 novel by R.H. van Gulik, featuring Tang Dynasty politician Di Renjie 狄仁傑|狄仁杰[Di2 Ren2 jie2] as master sleuth
大唐芙蓉园	da	yuan	Tang Paradise in Xi'an
大唐西域记	da	ji	Great Tang Records on the Western Regions, travel record of Xuan Zang 玄奘[Xuan2 zang4], compiled by 辯機|辩机[Bian4 ji1] in 646
大啖一番	da	fan	to have a square meal
大喊大叫	da	jiao	shouting and screaming (idiom); to scream loudly; to rant; to kick up a racket
大喜过望	da	wang	overjoyed at unexpected good news (idiom)
大嘴乌鸦	da	ya	(bird species of China) large-billed crow (Corvus macrorhynchos)
大嘴巴	da	ba	bigmouth; blabbermouth
大嘴鸟	da	niao	toucan
大器晚成	da	cheng	lit. it takes a long time to make a big pot (idiom); fig. a great talent matures slowly; in the fullness of time a major figure will develop into a pillar of the state; Rome wasn't built in a day
大噪鹛	da	mei	(bird species of China) giant laughingthrush (Ianthocincla maxima)
大圆圈	da	quan	great circle (in spherical geometry)
大地主	da	zhu	a large landowner
大地水准面	da	mian	geoid
大地测量学	da	xue	geodesy
大地线	da	xian	a geodesic (curve)
大场鸫	da	dong	OHBA Tsugumi (pen-name), author of cult series Death Note 死亡筆記|死亡笔记[si3 wang2 bi3 ji4]
大坏蛋	da	dan	scoundrel; bastard
大块头	da	tou	heavy man; fat man; lunkhead
大型强子对撞机	da	ji	Large Hadron Collider (LHC) at CERN, Geneva, Switzerland
大型空爆炸弹	da	dan	Massive Ordinance Air Blast (MOAB), a powerful American bomb
大城县	da	xian	Dacheng, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
大城市	da	shi	major city; metropolis
大埔县	da	xian	Dabu, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
大堡礁	da	jiao	Great Barrier Reef, Queensland, Australia
大墓地	da	di	necropolis
大声疾呼	da	hu	to call loudly (idiom); to get people's attention; to make one's views known
大处着眼小处着手	da	shou	think of the big picture, start with the little things (idiom)
大外宣	da	xuan	(derog.) China's foreign propaganda machine (esp. since c. 2009)
大多数	da	shu	(great) majority
大夜班	da	ban	graveyard shift; late night shift
大大咧咧	da	lie	(idiom) carefree; offhand; casual
大大小小	da	xiao	large and small; of all sizes
大大方方	da	fang	confident; calm; natural
大天鹅	da	e	(bird species of China) whooper swan (Cygnus cygnus)
大失所望	da	wang	greatly disappointed
大头兵	da	bing	low-ranking soldier; (by extension) low-level employee
大头照	da	zhao	head-and-shoulders photo (esp. a formal one used in a passport, ID card etc)
大头目	da	mu	the boss
大头贴	da	tie	photo booth sticker
大头钉	da	ding	tack; thumbtack; push pin
大奖赛	da	sai	grand prix
大奸似忠	da	zhong	the most treacherous person appears the most guileless (idiom)
大姐大	da	da	female gang leader; the top woman in her field; doyenne; matriarch
大姐头	da	tou	(Tw) female gang leader; female boss; big sister
大姚县	da	xian	Dayao, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
大姨妈	da	ma	mother's eldest sister (older than one's mother); (coll.) (euphemism) Aunt Flo (i.e. menstrual period)
大姨子	da	zi	sister-in-law; wife's older sister
大字报	da	bao	big-character poster
大学城	da	cheng	university city
大学学科能力测验	da	yan	General Scholastic Ability Test (college entrance exam in Taiwan)
大学本科	da	ke	university undergraduate course
大学生	da	sheng	university student; college student
大学部	da	bu	undergraduate course of study (Tw)
大学预科	da	ke	university preparatory course
大宁县	da	xian	Daning, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
大安区	da	qu	Da'an, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan; Daan, a district of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan; Daan, a district of Taichung City 臺中市|台中市[Tai2 zhong1 Shi4], Taiwan
大安市	da	shi	Da'an, a county-level city in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
大安的列斯	da	si	see 大安的列斯群島|大安的列斯群岛[Da4 an1 di4 lie4 si1 Qun2 dao3]
大安的列斯群岛	da	dao	the Greater Antilles, Caribbean island group including Cuba, Hispaniola (Haiti and the Dominican Republic), Jamaica and Puerto Rico
大客车	da	che	coach
大宪章	da	zhang	Magna Carta
大家伙儿	da	r	(coll.) everyone; all of us; you folks
大家庭	da	ting	extended family; big family; harmonious group
大家闺秀	da	xiu	girl from a wealthy family; unmarried daughter of a noble house
大容量	da	liang	high capacity
大富大贵	da	gui	very rich; millionaire
大富翁	da	weng	Monopoly (game); known as 地產大亨|地产大亨[Di4 chan3 Da4 heng1] in Taiwan
大寺院	da	yuan	abbey; large monastery
大将军	da	jun	important general; generalissimo
大小三度	da	du	major and minor third (musical interval)
大小便	da	bian	using the toilet; urination and defecation
大小写	da	xie	capitals and lowercase letters
大小声	da	sheng	(Tw) (coll.) to speak loudly and emotionally; to raise one's voice; to yell and shout
大小姐	da	jie	eldest daughter of an affluent family; (polite) your daughter; bossy or indulged young woman
大小眼	da	yan	one eye bigger than the other
大尾巴狼	da	lang	(coll.) person who puts on an act: feigning ignorance, pretending to be solicitous, acting innocent etc
大屠杀	da	sha	massacre; mass slaughter
大屯火山群	da	qun	Tatun Volcanic Group, volcanic area to the north of Taipei
大山猫	da	mao	Lynx rufus
大山雀	da	que	(bird species of China) great tit (Parus major)
大屿山	da	shan	Lantau Island, an island in Hong Kong
大峡谷	da	gu	great valley; Grand Canyon of Colorado River
大差不差	da	cha	roughly the same
大幅度	da	du	substantially; by a wide margin
大年三十	da	shi	last day of the lunar year; Chinese New Year's Eve
大年初一	da	yi	Lunar New Year's Day
大庆市	da	shi	Daqing, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
大床房	da	fang	hotel room with one double (or queen or king) bed
大床间	da	jian	see 大床房[da4 chuang2 fang2]
大度包容	da	rong	generous and forgiving
大庭广众	da	zhong	(idiom) in public; in front of everyone; openly (typically preceded by 在[zai4] and followed by 之下[zhi1 xia4])
大庾岭	da	ling	Dayu mountain range between southwest Jiangxi and Guangdong
大开大合	da	he	(idiom) epic in scope; wide-ranging
大开斋	da	zhai	see 開齋節|开斋节[Kai1 zhai1 jie2]
大开眼界	da	jie	(idiom) to broaden one's horizons greatly
大张声势	da	shi	to spread one's voice wide (idiom); wide publicity
大张挞伐	da	fa	(idiom) to launch an all-out attack; to roundly condemn; to castigate
大张旗鼓	da	gu	(idiom) with great fanfare; on a grand scale
大彻大悟	da	wu	to achieve supreme enlightenment or nirvana (Buddhism)
大忙人	da	ren	busy bee; very busy person
大快人心	da	xin	to the satisfaction of everyone
大快朵颐	da	yi	(idiom) to eat with great relish; to feast on (sth)
大总统	da	tong	president (primarily used during the early years of the Republic of China, 1912–1928)
大恩不言谢	da	xie	(maxim) a mere "thank you" is an insufficient response to a huge favor; (expression of gratitude) words cannot express my appreciation for what you have done
大悟县	da	xian	Dawu, a county in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
大悲咒	da	zhou	the Great Compassion Mantra
大惊失色	da	se	to turn pale with fright (idiom)
大惊小怪	da	guai	to make a fuss about nothing (idiom)
大惑不解	da	jie	to be at a loss (idiom)
大意失荆州	da	zhou	lit. to lose Jingzhou due to carelessness (idiom); fig. to suffer a major setback due to negligence
大愿地藏菩萨	da	sa	Kṣitigarbha Bodhisattva, the Bodhisattva of the Great Vow (to save all souls before accepting Bodhi); also translated Earth Treasury, Earth Womb, or Earth Store Bodhisattva
大慈恩寺	da	si	Daci'en Buddhist temple in Xi'an
大戟科	da	ke	Euphorbiaceae (plant family including rubber and cassava)
大户人家	da	jia	(idiom) wealthy, prominent family
大手大脚	da	jiao	extravagant (idiom); to throw away money by the handful; wasteful
大才小用	da	yong	variant of 大材小用[da4 cai2 xiao3 yong4]
大打出手	da	shou	to come to blows; to start a fight; (derived from the term for a type of theatrical fight scene, 打出手[da3 chu1 shou3])
大批特批	da	pi	to criticize severly; to censure
大拇哥	da	ge	thumb; big toe; USB flash drive
大拇指	da	zhi	Tom Thumb (small person in folk tales)
大拟啄木鸟	da	niao	(bird species of China) great barbet (Psilopogon virens)
大括号	da	hao	braces; curly brackets { }
大括弧	da	hu	braces; curly brackets { }
大排档	da	dang	food stall; open-air restaurant
大排长龙	da	long	to form a long queue (idiom); (of cars) to be bumper to bumper
大提琴	da	qin	cello (CL:把[ba3])
大提琴手	da	shou	cellist
大摇大摆	da	bai	to strut; swaggering
大放光明	da	ming	to shine brightly; (fig.) to show promise; to be on the up and up
大放厥词	da	ci	to prattle on self-importantly (idiom)
大放异彩	da	cai	to shine (of talents, skills, accomplishment); to demonstrate extraordinary talent or skill
大放悲声	da	sheng	to wail loudly and mournfully (idiom)
大政方针	da	zhen	major policy of the national government
大政翼赞会	da	hui	Taisei Yokusankai, Japanese fascist organization created in 1940
大敌当前	da	qian	(idiom) to be faced with a formidable enemy
大教堂	da	tang	cathedral
大数据	da	ju	big data (computing)
大斋期	da	qi	Lent (Christian period of forty days before Easter)
大斋节	da	jie	great fast; Christian lent
大斑啄木鸟	da	niao	(bird species of China) great spotted woodpecker (Dendrocopos major)
大斑鹡鸰	da	ling	(bird species of China) white-browed wagtail (Motacilla maderaspatensis)
大新县	da	xian	Daxin, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
大方之家	da	jia	learned person; expert in a certain field; abbr. to 方家[fang1 jia1]
大方县	da	xian	Dafang, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
大方广佛华严经	da	jing	Avatamsaka sutra of the Huayan school; also called Buddhavatamsaka-mahavaipulya Sutra, the Flower adornment sutra or the Garland sutra
大无畏	da	wei	utterly fearless
大日如来	da	lai	Vairocana, Buddha of supreme enlightenment
大旱之望云霓	da	ni	see 大旱望雲霓|大旱望云霓[da4 han4 wang4 yun2 ni2]
大旱望云霓	da	ni	(lit.) looking for rain clouds in times of drought (idiom); (fig.) to yearn for relief from a desperate situation
大明历	da	li	the 5th century Chinese calendar established by Zu Chongzhi 祖沖之|祖冲之
大明湖	da	hu	Daming Lake in Jinan 濟南|济南[Ji3 nan2], Shandong
大明虾	da	xia	king prawn
大星芹	da	qin	great masterwort (Astrantia major)
大昭寺	da	si	Jokhang, main Buddhist temple in Lhasa, a sacred place of Tibetan Buddhism
大显神通	da	tong	to display one's remarkable skill or prowess; to give full play to one's brilliant abilities
大显身手	da	shou	(idiom) fully displaying one's capabilities
大晚上	da	shang	very late at night
大智如愚	da	yu	the wise may appear stupid (idiom); a genius not appreciated in his own time
大智慧	da	hui	great wisdom and knowledge (Buddhism)
大智若愚	da	yu	(idiom) great intelligence may appear to be stupidity
大月支	da	zhi	variant of 大月氏[Da4 Yue4 zhi1]
大月氏	da	zhi	the Greater Yuezhi, a branch of the Yuezhi 月氏[Yue4 zhi1] people of central Asia during the Han dynasty
大有人在	da	zai	there are plenty of such people
大有作为	da	wei	to accomplish much; to have good prospects; to have a promising future
大有可为	da	wei	with great prospects for the future (idiom); well worth doing
大有学问	da	wen	(of a domain or area of expertise) to involve significant depth or complexity; to require a great deal of specialized knowledge; to be a real science; to be a fine art
大有希望	da	wang	to stand a good chance; to have great hopes; to be promising
大有文章	da	zhang	some deeper meaning in this; more to it than meets the eye; there's sth behind all this
大有裨益	da	yi	bringing great benefits (idiom); very useful; of great service; to help greatly
大本涅槃经	da	jing	(Buddhism) the Nirvana Sutra
大本营	da	ying	headquarters; base camp
大本钟	da	zhong	Big Ben
大朱雀	da	que	(bird species of China) great rosefinch (Carpodacus rubicilla)
大杀风景	da	jing	to be a blot on the landscape; to dampen spirits; to spoil the fun
大杂烩	da	hui	mix-up; mish-mash; potpourri
大杂院	da	yuan	compound with many families living together
大权在握	da	wo	to be in a position of power
大李杜	da	du	Li Bai 李白[Li3 Bai2] and Du Fu 杜甫[Du4 Fu3]
大材小用	da	yong	(idiom) to use a talented person in a role far beneath their ability; a waste of talent
大杓鹬	da	yu	(bird species of China) Far Eastern curlew (Numenius madagascariensis)
大杜鹃	da	juan	(bird species of China) common cuckoo (Cuculus canorus)
大染缸	da	gang	big dyeing vat; (fig.) corrupting environment
大柴旦	da	dan	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
大柴旦行政区	da	qu	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
大柴旦行政委员会	da	hui	Da Qaidam county level subdivision of Haixi Mongol and Tibetan autonomous prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州, Qinghai
大树底下好乘凉	da	liang	lit. under a big tree the shade is plentiful (idiom); fig. to benefit by proximity to an influential person
大树莺	da	ying	(bird species of China) chestnut-crowned bush warbler (Cettia major)
大树菠萝	da	luo	jackfruit
大根兰	da	lan	Cymbidium macrorrhizum Lindl.
大模大样	da	yang	boldly; ostentatiously; poised; self-assured; Taiwan pr. [da4 mo2 da4 yang4]
大樱桃	da	tao	sweet cherry
大步流星	da	xing	at a stride; taking large steps (while walking)
大武口	da	kou	see 大武口區|大武口区[Da4 wu3 kou3 Qu1]
大武口区	da	qu	Dawukou, a district of Shizuishan City 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 Shi4], Ningxia
大比目鱼	da	yu	halibut
大气候	da	hou	atmosphere
大气儿	da	r	erhua variant of 大氣|大气[da4 qi4]
大气压	da	ya	atmospheric pressure
大气压力	da	li	atmospheric pressure
大气压强	da	qiang	atmospheric pressure
大气圈	da	quan	atmosphere
大气层	da	ceng	(meteorology) the atmosphere; atmospheric layer
大气层核试验	da	yan	atmospheric nuclear test
大气暖化	da	hua	atmospheric warming
大气污染	da	ran	air pollution; atmospheric pollution
大气环流	da	liu	atmospheric circulation
大氧吧	da	ba	source of oxygen (of forests and nature reserves); (cliché) lungs of the planet
大水冲了龙王庙	da	miao	lit. surging waters flooded the Dragon King temple (idiom); fig. to fail to recognize a familiar person; a dispute between close people who fail to recognize each other
大汉族主义	da	yi	Greater Han nationalism
大汗淋漓	da	li	dripping with sweat
大江健三郎	da	lang	Oe Kenzaburo (1935-) Japanese novelist and 1994 Nobel laureate
大江南北	da	bei	north and south sides of the Yangtze River (idiom); (fig.) all over China
大汶口文化	da	hua	Dawenkou culture (c. 4100-2600 BC), Neolithic culture based in today's Shandong area 山東|山东[Shan1 dong1]
大沙河	da	he	Dasha River (the name of rivers in various parts of China)
大沙锥	da	zhui	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's snipe (Gallinago megala)
大油菜	da	cai	oilseed rape (Brassica napus)
大沽口炮台	da	tai	Taku Forts, maritime defense works in Tianjin dating back to the Ming dynasty, playing a prominent role during the Opium Wars (1839-1860)
大沽炮台	da	tai	Taku Forts, maritime defense works in Tianjin dating back to the Ming dynasty, playing a prominent role during the Opium Wars (1839-1860)
大法官	da	guan	grand justice; high court justice; supreme court justice
大波斯菊	da	ju	cosmos (Cosmos bipinnatus), flowering herbaceous plant
大泽乡起义	da	yi	Dazexiang Uprising, another name for 陳勝吳廣起義|陈胜吴广起义[Chen2 Sheng4 Wu2 Guang3 Qi3 yi4]
大洋中脊	da	ji	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
大洋型地壳	da	qiao	oceanic crust (geology)
大洋洲	da	zhou	Oceania
大洋龙	da	long	halisaurus
大洼区	da	qu	Dawa, a district of Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
大流行	da	xing	major epidemic; pandemic
大浅盘	da	pan	platter
大浦洞	da	dong	Taepodong, North Korean rocket series
大海捞针	da	zhen	lit. to fish a needle from the sea; to find a needle in a haystack (idiom)
大润发	da	fa	RT Mart (supermarket chain)
大清帝国	da	guo	Great Qing Empire (1644-1911)
大清早	da	zao	early in the morning
大渡口	da	kou	see 大渡口區|大渡口区[Da4 du4 kou3 Qu1]
大渡口区	da	qu	Dadukou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
大渡河	da	he	Dadu River in Sichuan
大港区	da	qu	Dagang former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
大湄公河次区域	da	yu	Greater Mekong Subregion (GMS), area of economic cooperation between China and Vietnam
大湾区	da	qu	Greater Bay Area, established in 2017, consisting of Hong Kong, Macao and nine cities in Guangdong (abbr. for 粵港澳大灣區|粤港澳大湾区[Yue4 Gang3 Ao4 Da4 wan1 Qu1])
大溪地	da	di	Tahiti, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia (Tw)
大溪豆干	da	gan	dried tofu made in Daxi, a district of Taoyuan, Taiwan famous for its dried tofu 豆干[dou4 gan1]
大满贯	da	guan	grand slam
大滨鹬	da	yu	(bird species of China) great knot (Calidris tenuirostris)
大灭绝	da	jue	mass extinction
大灰啄木鸟	da	niao	(bird species of China) great slaty woodpecker (Mulleripicus pulverulentus)
大灰狼	da	lang	big bad wolf
大炮打蚊子	da	zi	cannon fire to hit a mosquito; to use a sledgehammer to crack a nut
大热天	da	tian	scorcher; very hot day
大煞风景	da	jing	see 大殺風景|大杀风景[da4 sha1 feng1 jing3]
大熊座	da	zuo	Ursa Major, the Great Bear (constellation)
大熊猫	da	mao	giant panda (Ailuropoda melanoleuca)
大熔炉	da	lu	lit. large smelting furnace; fig. the mixing of different ethnicities and cultures; Melting Pot
大爆炸	da	zha	Big Bang (cosmology)
大牌档	da	dang	food stall; open-air restaurant (original Hong Kong written form, now usually written as 大排檔|大排档[da4 pai2 dang4])
大犬座	da	zuo	Canis Major (constellation)
大猩猩	da	xing	gorilla
大王蛇	da	she	king ratsnake (Elaphe carinata)
大环境	da	jing	the environment (from a macro perspective); the broader context; the bigger picture
大理寺	da	si	Imperial Court of Judicial Review
大理寺卿	da	qing	Chief Justice of the Imperial Court of Judicial Review
大理岩	da	yan	marble
大理州	da	zhou	see 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
大理市	da	shi	Dali, a county-level city in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
大理白族自治州	da	zhou	Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
大理石	da	shi	marble
大理花	da	hua	dahlia (loanword)
大田县	da	xian	Datian, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
大男人	da	ren	very masculine guy; a real man; (used ironically) a grown man
大男人主义	da	yi	male chauvinism
大男子主义	da	yi	male chauvinism
大男子主义者	da	zhe	male chauvinist
大白天	da	tian	in broad daylight
大白熊犬	da	quan	Great Pyrenees (dog breed)
大白菜	da	cai	Chinese cabbage; napa cabbage (Brassica rapa subsp. pekinensis); CL:棵[ke1]
大白话	da	hua	colloquial speech
大白鲨	da	sha	great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias)
大白鹭	da	lu	(bird species of China) great egret (Ardea alba)
大白鼠	da	shu	white lab rat
大盖帽	da	mao	peaked cap; service cap; visor cap
大盘尾	da	wei	(bird species of China) greater racket-tailed drongo (Dicrurus paradiseus)
大盘鸡	da	ji	dapanji or "big plate chicken", a kind of spicy chicken stew originating from Xinjiang
大相径庭	da	ting	as different as can be (idiom); poles apart
大眼瞪小眼	da	yan	(idiom) to look at each other, not knowing what to do
大眼角	da	jiao	inner corner of the eye
大短趾百灵	da	ling	(bird species of China) greater short-toed lark (Calandrella brachydactyla)
大石桥	da	qiao	see 大石橋市|大石桥市[Da4 shi2 qiao2 Shi4]
大石桥市	da	shi	Dashiqiao, a county-level city in Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
大石鸡	da	ji	(bird species of China) Przevalski's partridge (Alectoris magna)
大石鸻	da	heng	(bird species of China) great stone-curlew (Esacus recurvirostris)
大破大立	da	li	to destroy the old and establish the new (idiom); radical transformation
大礼帽	da	mao	top hat
大祥区	da	qu	Daxiang, a district of Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
大祭司	da	si	High Priest
大祸临头	da	tou	facing imminent catastrophe; calamity looms; all hell will break loose
大竹县	da	xian	Dazhu, a county in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
大笨象	da	xiang	(slang) elephant
大笨鸟	da	niao	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
大箐山	da	shan	see 大箐山縣|大箐山县[Da4 qing4 shan1 Xian4]
大箐山县	da	xian	Daqingshan, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
大篷车	da	che	covered truck; covered wagon; bus with some seating but mostly standing room
大紫胸鹦鹉	da	wu	(bird species of China) Lord Derby's parakeet (Psittacula derbiana)
大紫荆勋章	da	zhang	Great Bauhinia Medal (GBM), established in 1997 as the highest award under Hong Kong's honors and awards system
大红大紫	da	zi	to hit the big time
大红大绿	da	lv	bright-colored; garish
大红灯笼高高挂	da	gua	Raise the Red Lantern (1991), movie by Zhang Yimou 張藝謀|张艺谋[Zhang1 Yi4 mou2]
大红袍	da	pao	an expensive type of oolong tea
大红鹳	da	guan	(bird species of China) greater flamingo (Phoenicopterus roseus)
大红鼻子	da	zi	rhinophyma (red nose, often related to rosacea or excessive alcohol); brandy nose
大纪元	da	yuan	Epoch Times, US newspaper
大纪元时报	da	bao	Epoch Times, US newspaper
大结局	da	ju	finale (of a series); grand finale
大绝灭	da	mie	mass extinction
大绿雀鹎	da	bei	(bird species of China) great iora (Aegithina lafresnayei)
大羊驼	da	tuo	llama
大美人	da	ren	gorgeous-looking woman
大老婆	da	po	primary wife
大老粗	da	cu	uncouth fellow; rustic
大老远	da	yuan	very far away
大而化之	da	zhi	careless; sloppy
大而无当	da	dang	grandiose but impractical (idiom); large but of no real use
大耳窿	da	long	loan shark; usurer
大肆攻击	da	ji	to vilify sb wantonly; unrestrained attack (on sb)
大肆鼓吹	da	chui	to advocate vociferously
大肚子	da	zi	pregnant; potbelly; big eater
大肚子经济	da	ji	"Pregnancy-oriented Economy", new market conditions brought about by a predicted baby boom in China
大肠包小肠	da	chang	small sausage in large sausage (pork sausage stuffed inside a glutinous rice sausage, a Taiwanese street food specialty)
大肠杆菌	da	jun	Escherichia coli (E. coli)
大肠激躁症	da	zheng	irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
大股东	da	dong	large stockholder; majority shareholder
大胃王	da	wang	eating champion
大脑死亡	da	wang	brain death
大脚怪	da	guai	bigfoot
大腕儿	da	r	erhua variant of 大腕[da4 wan4]
大腹便便	da	pian	big-bellied (idiom); paunchy
大腹皮	da	pi	husk of betel nut 檳榔|槟榔[bing1 lang5]
大腿袜	da	wa	thigh highs
大自然	da	ran	nature (the natural world)
大舅哥	da	ge	(coll.) wife's older brother
大舅子	da	zi	(coll.) wife's older brother
大舌头	da	tou	(coll.) lisp; one who lisps
大般涅槃经	da	jing	(Buddhism) Mahāyāna Mahāparinirvāṇa Sūtra, aka the Nirvana Sutra, of which two major Chinese translations are extant, influential in the development of East Asian Buddhism
大舵手	da	shou	the Great Helmsman (Mao Zedong)
大苇莺	da	ying	(bird species of China) great reed warbler (Acrocephalus arundinaceus)
大英博物馆	da	guan	British Museum
大英县	da	xian	Daying, a county in Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
大英国协	da	xie	British Commonwealth of Nations (Tw)
大英帝国	da	guo	British Empire
大英联合王国	da	guo	United Kingdom
大范围	da	wei	large-scale
大茴香	da	xiang	Chinese anise; star anise
大草原	da	yuan	prairie; savanna
大草莺	da	ying	(bird species of China) Chinese grassbird (Graminicola striatus)
大草鹛	da	mei	(bird species of China) giant babax (Pterorhinus waddelli)
大荔县	da	xian	Dali, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
大获全胜	da	sheng	to seize total victory (idiom); an overwhelming victory; to win by a landslide (in election)
大菱鲆	da	ping	turbot
大萝卜	da	bo	see 白蘿蔔|白萝卜[bai2 luo2 bo5]
大萧条	da	tiao	the Great Depression (1929-c. 1939)
大藏经	da	jing	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
大虎头蜂	da	feng	Asian giant hornet (Vespa mandarinia)
大蛇丸	da	wan	Orochimaru, Japanese folktale hero; Orochimaru, character in the Naruto manga series
大蝾螈	da	yuan	Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus davidianus)
大融炉	da	lu	melting pot
大行其道	da	dao	rampant; very popular
大街小巷	da	xiang	great streets and small alleys (idiom); everywhere in the city
大补帖	da	tie	tonic; healthy concoction; (fig.) just what the doctor ordered
大西国	da	guo	Atlantis
大西庇阿	da	a	Scipio Africanus (235-183 BC), Roman general and statesman
大西洋	da	yang	Atlantic Ocean
大西洋中脊	da	ji	Atlantic mid-ocean ridge
大西洋国	da	guo	Historical name for Portugal during the Qing dynasty
大西洋洋中脊	da	ji	Atlantic mid-ocean ridge
大观区	da	qu	Daguan, a district of Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
大观园	da	yuan	Prospect Garden; Grand View Garden, a garden in Dream of the Red Chamber
大规模	da	mo	large scale; extensive; wide scale
大规模杀伤性武器	da	qi	weapon of mass destruction
大角星	da	xing	Arcturus (brightest star in the constellation Boötes 牧夫座[Mu4 fu1 zuo4])
大言不惭	da	can	to boast shamelessly; to talk big
大话骰	da	tou	liar's dice (dice game)
大谈特谈	da	tan	to keep on talking about
大贱卖	da	mai	to sell at a big discount
大费周章	da	zhang	to take great pains; to go to a lot of trouble
大赦国际	da	ji	Amnesty International
大起大落	da	luo	(of market prices etc) to rapidly fluctuate (idiom); volatile; significant ups and downs
大足区	da	qu	Dazu, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
大跃进	da	jin	Great Leap Forward (1958-1960), Mao's attempt to modernize China's economy, which resulted in economic devastation, and millions of deaths from famine caused by misguided policies
大跌市	da	shi	(HK) stock market crash; major market downturn
大跌眼镜	da	jing	(fig.) to be astounded
大路货	da	huo	staple goods
大踏步	da	bu	in big strides; (fig.) in giant steps
大轴戏	da	xi	last item on a program (theater)
大过年	da	nian	Chinese New Year
大运河	da	he	the Grand Canal, 1800 km from Beijing to Hangzhou, built starting from 486 BC
大进大出	da	chu	large-scale import and export
大连外国语大学	da	xue	Dalian University of Foreign Languages
大连市	da	shi	Dalian, sub-provincial city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
大连理工大学	da	xue	Dalian University of Technology
大逃港	da	gang	exodus to Hong Kong (from mainland China, 1950s-1970s)
大逆不道	da	dao	disgraceful (of behavior that is unfilial, rebellious or otherwise in grave breach of the norms of society)
大通区	da	qu	Datong, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
大通县	da	xian	see 大通回族土族自治縣|大通回族土族自治县[Da4 tong1 Hui2 zu2 Tu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
大通回族土族自治县	da	xian	Datong Hui and Tu Autonomous County, in Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
大道具	da	ju	(theater) set prop (desk, chairs etc)
大道理	da	li	major principle; general truth; sermon (reproof)
大邑县	da	xian	Dayi, a county in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
大部分	da	fen	the greater part; the majority; most; Taiwan pr. [da4bu4fen4]
大部制	da	zhi	super-ministry system (reform aimed at streamlining government department functions)
大都会	da	hui	major city; metropolis; metropolitan
大都市	da	shi	metropolis; large city; megacity
大醇小疵	da	ci	great despite minor blemishes; a rough diamond
大野狼	da	lang	big bad wolf
大量生产	da	chan	to mass-produce; mass production
大金背啄木鸟	da	niao	(bird species of China) buff-spotted flameback (Chrysocolaptes lucidus)
大钢琴	da	qin	grand piano
大锅饭	da	fan	meal cooked in a large pot; communal meal; (fig.) system that rewards everyone equally regardless of merit
大错特错	da	cuo	to be gravely mistaken (idiom)
大键琴	da	qin	a harpsichord
大长今	da	jin	Dae Jang Geum, a 2003 Korean historical drama TV series
大长嘴地鸫	da	dong	(bird species of China) long-billed thrush (Zoothera monticola)
大长腿	da	tui	(coll.) (a person's) long legs
大闸蟹	da	xie	Chinese mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis); Shanghai hairy crab
大闹天宫	da	gong	Monkey Wreaks Havoc in Heaven, story about the Monkey King Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1] from the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
大阪府	da	fu	Osaka Prefecture, Japan
大阪烧	da	shao	okonomiyaki (Japanese savory pancake) in the Kansai or Osaka 大阪[Da4 ban3] style
大陆块	da	kuai	continental plates (geology)
大陆坡	da	po	continental slope (boundary of continental shelf)
大陆妹	da	mei	(in Taiwan, Hong Kong or Macao) girl from the mainland; (Tw) Fushan lettuce 福山萵苣|福山莴苣[Fu2 shan1 wo1 ju4]
大陆客	da	ke	(Tw) tourist from mainland China; illegal immigrant from mainland China
大陆性	da	xing	continental
大陆性气候	da	hou	continental climate
大陆架	da	jia	continental shelf
大陆漂移	da	yi	continental drift
大限临头	da	tou	facing the end (idiom); at the end of one's life; with one foot in the grave
大限到来	da	lai	to die; one's allocated lifespan is accomplished
大陪审团	da	tuan	grand jury
大难不死	da	si	to just escape from calamity
大难不死必有后福	da	fu	one is bound for good fortune after surviving a great disaster (proverb)
大难临头	da	tou	to be facing imminent calamity (idiom); disaster is looming
大雁塔	da	ta	Giant Wild Goose Pagoda in Xi'an
大雄宝殿	da	dian	Hall of Great Strength, main hall of a Buddhist temple containing the main image of veneration 大雄[da4 xiong2]
大雨倾盆	da	pen	see 傾盆大雨|倾盆大雨[qing1 pen2 da4 yu3]
大雨如注	da	zhu	pouring with rain; rain bucketing down
大雨滂沱	da	tuo	see 滂沱大雨[pang1 tuo2 da4 yu3]
大青山	da	shan	Daqing Mountain in Hohhot 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia
大面积	da	ji	large area; (fig.) (of a problem) (occurring) on a massive scale
大韩帝国	da	guo	Korean Empire, from fall of Joseon dynasty in 1897 to annexation by Japan in 1910
大韩民国	da	guo	Republic of Korea (South Korea)
大韩航空	da	kong	Korean Air, South Korea's main airline
大题小作	da	zuo	to cut a long story short; a brief treatment of a complicated subject; fig. to treat an important question as a minor matter
大风吹	da	chui	"The Wind Blows", a game in which one player calls out a category, all players who match it must change seats, and the person left without a seat becomes "it" (鬼[gui3])
大饭店	da	dian	grand hotel; large, upscale hotel
大饱口福	da	fu	to eat one's fill; to have a good meal
大饱眼福	da	fu	to feast one's eyes
大马哈鱼	da	yu	chum salmon
大马士革	da	ge	Damascus, capital of Syria
大马士革李	da	li	damson (fruit)
大驾光临	da	lin	we are honored by your presence
大鱼大肉	da	rou	dishes with generous amounts of meat and fish; lavish meal
大鲽鱼	da	yu	turbot fish
大鳞大马哈鱼	da	yu	see 大鱗大麻哈魚|大鳞大麻哈鱼[da4 lin2 da2 ma2 ha3 yu2]
大鳞大麻哈鱼	da	yu	king salmon; Chinook salmon
大鸣大放	da	fang	(idiom) to freely air one's views; to be heard far and wide; to attract a lot of attention
大鸣大放运动	da	dong	see 百花運動|百花运动[Bai3 hua1 Yun4 dong4]
大鸿胪	da	lu	minister responsible for foreign relations and court protocol in imperial China
大鹃鵙	da	ju	(bird species of China) large cuckooshrike (Coracina macei)
大鹏新区	da	qu	Dapeng New District, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
大鹏鸟	da	niao	roc (mythical bird of prey)
大麦克	da	ke	Big Mac (McDonald's hamburger) (Tw)
大麦克指数	da	shu	see 巨無霸漢堡包指數|巨无霸汉堡包指数[Ju4 wu2 ba4 han4 bao3 bao1 Zhi3 shu4]
大麦地	da	di	place name in Ningxia with rock carving conjectured to be a stage in the development of Chinese characters
大麦町	da	ting	Dalmatian (dog breed)
大麻二酚	da	fen	cannabidiol (CBD)
大麻哈鱼	da	yu	see 大馬哈魚|大马哈鱼[da4 ma3 ha3 yu2]
大麻鳽	da	yan	(bird species of China) Eurasian bittern (Botaurus stellaris)
大黄冠啄木鸟	da	niao	(bird species of China) greater yellownape (Chrysophlegma flavinucha)
大黄蜂	da	feng	bumblebee
大黄鱼	da	yu	Croceine croaker (Pseudosciaena crocea), a fish popular in Cantonese cooking
大龄青年	da	nian	young people in their late 20s or older who are still unmarried
天上下刀子	tian	zi	lit. knives rain down from the sky (idiom); fig. (even if) the sky crumbles
天上不会掉馅饼	tian	bing	there is no such thing as a free lunch (idiom)
天上掉馅饼	tian	bing	a meat pie falls from the sky (idiom); to have something fall into your lap
天下乌鸦一般黑	tian	hei	all crows are black (idiom); evil people are bad all over the world
天下兴亡匹夫有责	tian	ze	The rise and fall of the nation concerns everyone (idiom). Everyone bears responsibility for the prosperity of society.
天下大乱	tian	luan	the whole country in rebellion
天下大势	tian	shi	the overall state of affairs in the world (esp. in political or historical terms); the prevailing trend across the nation or empire
天下太平	tian	ping	the whole world at peace (idiom); peace and prosperity
天下没有不散的宴席	tian	xi	see 天下沒有不散的筵席|天下没有不散的筵席[tian1 xia4 mei2 you3 bu4 san4 de5 yan2 xi2]
天下没有不散的筵席	tian	xi	all good things must come to an end (idiom)
天下第一	tian	yi	first under heaven; number one in the country
天不怕地不怕	tian	pa	fearing nothing in Heaven or Earth (idiom); fearless
天主教	tian	jiao	Catholicism
天主教会	tian	hui	the Catholic Church
天主教徒	tian	tu	Catholic; follower of Catholicism
天人合一	tian	yi	oneness of heaven and humanity; the theory that man is an integral part of nature
天人感应	tian	ying	interactions between heaven and mankind (Han Dynasty doctrine)
天伦之乐	tian	le	family love and joy; domestic bliss
天低吴楚眼空无物	tian	wu	the sky hangs low over the Yangtze, empty as far as the eye can see (idiom); nothing to see to the broad horizon
天体主义	tian	yi	nudism
天体光谱学	tian	xue	astronomical spectroscopy
天体力学	tian	xue	celestial mechanics
天体演化学	tian	xue	cosmogony
天体物理	tian	li	astrophysics
天体物理学	tian	xue	astrophysics
天体物理学家	tian	jia	astrophysicist
天作之合	tian	he	a match made in heaven (idiom)
天使投资	tian	zi	angel investment
天使投资人	tian	ren	angel investor
天使报喜节	tian	jie	Annunciation (Christian festival on 25th March); Lady day
天元区	tian	qu	Tianyuan, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
天兔座	tian	zuo	Lepus (constellation)
天全县	tian	xian	Tianquan, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
天公不作美	tian	mei	Heaven is not cooperating (idiom); the weather is not favorable for the planned activity
天公作美	tian	mei	Heaven is cooperating (idiom); the weather is favorable for the planned activity (a variation of 天公不作美|天公不作美[tian1 gong1 bu4 zuo4 mei3])
天公地道	tian	dao	absolutely fair and reasonable (idiom); equitable
天兵天将	tian	jiang	celestial troops and generals (idiom); fig. superior forces
天冬氨酸	tian	suan	aspartic acid (Asp), an amino acid
天冬苯丙二肽酯	tian	zhi	aspartame C14H18N2O (artificial sweetener)
天冬酰胺	tian	an	asparagine (Asn), an amino acid
天刚亮	tian	liang	daybreak
天南地北	tian	bei	(idiom) far apart; (idiom) from different places; from all over; (idiom) (to talk) about this and that
天南海北	tian	bei	see 天南地北[tian1 nan2 di4 bei3]
天台县	tian	xian	Tiantai, a county in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
天台宗	tian	zong	Tiantai school of Buddhism
天台山	tian	shan	Mt Tiantai near Shaoxing 紹興|绍兴[Shao4 xing1] in Zhejiang, the center of Tiantai Buddhism 天台宗[Tian1 tai2 zong1]
天各一方	tian	fang	(of relatives or friends) to live far apart from each other
天后站	tian	zhan	Tin Hau MTR station (Eastern District, Hong Kong Island)
天地会	tian	hui	Tiandihui (Chinese fraternal organization)
天地悬隔	tian	ge	lit. a gulf between heaven and earth (idiom); fig. wide difference of opinion
天地玄黄	tian	huang	first line of the Thousand Character Classic 千字文[Qian1 zi4 wen2]
天地良心	tian	xin	in all honesty; truth to tell
天坛座	tian	zuo	Ara (constellation)
天城文	tian	wen	Devanagari alphabet used in India and Nepal
天壤之别	tian	bie	(lit.) the difference between heaven and earth (idiom); (fig.) night and day difference; a world of difference; a far cry (from)
天外有天人外有人	tian	ren	see 人外有人，天外有天[ren2 wai4 you3 ren2 , tian1 wai4 you3 tian1]
天外来客	tian	ke	visitors from outer space
天妇罗	tian	luo	tempura (loanword from Japanese)
天妒英才	tian	cai	heaven is jealous of heroic genius (idiom); the great have great hardship to contend with; those whom the Gods love die young
天孙娘娘	tian	niang	Goddess of Fertility
天宁区	tian	qu	Tianning, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
天安门	tian	men	Tiananmen Gate, entrance of the Imperial City in Beijing
天安门广场	tian	chang	Tiananmen Square
天安门开了	tian	le	pants fly is down; the barn door is open
天寒地冻	tian	dong	(idiom) bitterly cold; frigid
天山区	tian	qu	Tianshan, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
天峨县	tian	xian	Tian'e, a county in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
天峻县	tian	xian	Tianjun, a county in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
天崩地裂	tian	lie	heaven falls and earth rends (idiom); rocked by a major disaster; fig. violent revolution; major social upheaval
天差地别	tian	bie	(idiom) poles apart; as different as can be
天差地远	tian	yuan	poles apart (idiom); entirely different
天平动	tian	dong	(astronomy) libration
天底下	tian	xia	in this world; under the sun
天府之国	tian	guo	(idiom) land of plenty (usu. used in reference to Sichuan)
天心区	tian	qu	Tianxin, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
天悬地隔	tian	ge	see 天差地遠|天差地远[tian1 cha1 di4 yuan3]
天惊石破	tian	po	see 石破天驚|石破天惊[shi2 po4 tian1 jing1]
天文单位	tian	wei	astronomical unit (AU)
天文台	tian	tai	astronomical observatory
天文学	tian	xue	astronomy
天文学大成	tian	cheng	the Almagest by Ptolemy
天文学家	tian	jia	astronomer
天文数字	tian	zi	(idiom) astronomical figure
天文望远镜	tian	jing	astronomical telescope
天文馆	tian	guan	planetarium
天方夜谭	tian	tan	The Arabian Nights (classic story)
天旋地转	tian	zhuan	the sky spins, the earth goes round (idiom); giddy with one's head spinning; fig. huge changes in the world
天无绝人之路	tian	lu	Heaven never bars one's way (idiom); don't despair and you will find a way through.; Never give up hope.; Never say die.
天时地利人和	tian	he	the time is right, geographical and social conditions are favorable (idiom); a good time to go to war
天星码头	tian	tou	Star Ferry terminal, Hong Kong
天晓得	tian	de	Heaven knows!
天机不可泄漏	tian	lou	lit. mysteries of heaven must not be revealed (idiom); must not be revealed; I am not at liberty to inform you.
天机不可泄露	tian	lu	lit. mysteries of heaven must not be revealed (idiom); must not be revealed; I am not at liberty to inform you.
天杀的	tian	de	Goddam!; goddamn; wretched
天柱县	tian	xian	Tianzhu, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
天桥区	tian	qu	Tianqiao, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
天气预报	tian	bao	weather forecast
天水市	tian	shi	Tianshui, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
天水碧	tian	bi	light cyan
天河区	tian	qu	Tianhe, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
天津会议专条	tian	tiao	Tianjin agreement of 1885 between Li Hongzhang 李鴻章|李鸿章[Li3 Hong2 zhang1] and ITŌ Hirobumi 伊藤博文[Yi1 teng2 Bo2 wen2] to pull Qing and Japanese troops out of Korea
天津卫	tian	wei	(Ming dynasty) Tianjin garrison; historical name of Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
天津外国语大学	tian	xue	Tianjin Foreign Studies University
天津大学	tian	xue	Tianjin University
天津市	tian	shi	Tianjin municipality (short name 津[Jin1])
天津条约	tian	yue	Treaty of Tianjin of 1858, a sequence of unequal treaties 不平等條約|不平等条约 between Russia, USA, England, France and Qing China
天津环球金融中心	tian	xin	Tianjin World Financial Center, skyscraper a.k.a. the Tianjin Tower or Jin Tower; abbr. to 津塔[Jin1 ta3]
天涯何处无芳草	tian	cao	there are plenty more fish in the sea (idiom)
天涯区	tian	qu	Tianya, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
天涯比邻	tian	lin	see 天涯若比鄰|天涯若比邻[tian1 ya2 ruo4 bi3 lin2]
天涯海角	tian	jiao	Tianya Haijiao, tourism area on the south coast of Hainan, 24 km west of Sanya 三亞|三亚[San1 ya4]
天涯若比邻	tian	lin	far-flung realms as next door (idiom); close in spirit although far away
天渊之别	tian	bie	see 天壤之別|天壤之别[tian1 rang3 zhi1 bie2]
天演论	tian	lun	the theory of evolution (early translation, since replaced by 進化論|进化论)
天灵盖	tian	gai	crown of the head
天灾人祸	tian	huo	natural calamities and man-made disasters (idiom)
天灾地孽	tian	nie	catastrophes and unnatural phenomena; Heaven-sent warnings
天炉座	tian	zuo	Fornax (constellation)
天然呆	tian	dai	(loanword from Japanese "tennen boke") space cadet; muddleheaded
天然橡胶	tian	jiao	natural rubber
天然毒素	tian	su	natural toxin
天然气	tian	qi	natural gas
天然纤维	tian	wei	natural fiber
天然铀	tian	you	natural uranium
天煞孤星	tian	xing	bane of others' existence
天燕座	tian	zuo	Apus (constellation)
天狼星	tian	xing	Sirius, a double star in constellation Canis Major 大犬座
天猫座	tian	zuo	Lynx (constellation)
天王星	tian	xing	Uranus (planet)
天球赤道	tian	dao	celestial equator
天理教	tian	jiao	Tenrikyo, a Japanese religion
天理难容	tian	rong	Heaven cannot tolerate this (idiom); intolerable behavior
天琴座	tian	zuo	Lyra (constellation)
天琴星座	tian	zuo	Lyra, constellation containing Vega 織女星|织女星[Zhi1 nu:3 xing1]
天生一对	tian	dui	a match made in heaven; a perfect couple
天生丽质	tian	zhi	(idiom) to be naturally beautiful; to be born beautiful
天生的一对	tian	dui	couple who were made for each other
天疱疮	tian	chuang	(medicine) pemphigus
天真烂漫	tian	man	(idiom) innocent and unaffected
天祝县	tian	xian	see 天祝藏族自治縣|天祝藏族自治县[Tian1 zhu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
天祝藏族自治县	tian	xian	Tianzhu Tibetan Autonomous County, in Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
天秤座	tian	zuo	Libra (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
天穿日	tian	ri	a Hakka festival held on the 20th day of the first lunar month
天竺牡丹	tian	dan	dahlia
天竺葵	tian	kui	geranium (Pelargonium hortorum)
天竺鼠	tian	shu	guinea pig; cavy
天等县	tian	xian	Tiandeng, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
天箭座	tian	zuo	Sagitta (constellation)
天籁之音	tian	yin	extraordinarily beautiful music
天线宝宝	tian	bao	Teletubbies
天经地义	tian	yi	lit. heaven's law and earth's principle (idiom); fig. right and proper; right and unalterable; a matter of course
天网恢恢	tian	hui	lit. heaven's net has wide meshes, but nothing escapes it (idiom, from Laozi 73); fig. the way of Heaven is fair, but the guilty will not escape; you can't run from the long arm of the law
天网恢恢疏而不失	tian	shi	see 天網恢恢，疏而不漏|天网恢恢，疏而不漏[tian1 wang3 hui1 hui1 , shu1 er2 bu4 lou4]
天网恢恢疏而不漏	tian	lou	lit. heaven's net has wide meshes, but nothing escapes it (idiom, from Laozi 73); fig. the way of Heaven is fair, but the guilty will not escape; you can't run from the long arm of the law
天罗地网	tian	wang	inescapable net (idiom); trap; dragnet
天翻地覆	tian	fu	sky and the earth turning upside down (idiom); fig. complete confusion; everything turned on its head
天老儿	tian	r	albino (human)
天老爷	tian	ye	see 老天爺|老天爷[lao3 tian1 ye2]
天舟座	tian	zuo	Argo (constellation, now divided into Carina 船底座 and Puppis 船尾座)
天花乱坠	tian	zhui	(lit.) a deluge of heavenly flowers (idiom); (fig.) extravagant embellishments; hype
天花板	tian	ban	ceiling (of a room); (fig.) upper limit; (slang) the very best (in a given field)
天花病毒	tian	du	variola virus
天荒地老	tian	lao	(idiom) until the end of time
天蓝色	tian	se	azure
天蝎座	tian	zuo	Scorpio or Scorpius (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
天蟹座	tian	zuo	Cancer (constellation and sign of the zodiac); variant of 巨蟹座
天行赤眼	tian	yan	acute contagious conjunctivitis (TCM)
天衣无缝	tian	feng	lit. seamless heavenly clothes (idiom); fig. flawless
天要下雨娘要嫁人	tian	ren	(lit.) the heavens will rain, and widowed mothers will remarry (saying); (fig.) some things are inevitable
天象仪	tian	yi	planetarium projector
天赋异禀	tian	bing	extraordinary talent; exceptionally gifted
天路历程	tian	cheng	Pilgrim's Progress, 1678 novel by John Bunyan (first Chinese translation 1851)
天造地设	tian	she	lit. made by Heaven and arranged by Earth(idiom); ideal; perfect
天道酬勤	tian	qin	Heaven rewards the diligent. (idiom)
天那水	tian	shui	(loanword) paint thinner
天镇县	tian	xian	Tianzhen, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
天长地久	tian	jiu	enduring while the world lasts (idiom); eternal
天长市	tian	shi	Tianchang, a county-level city in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
天长日久	tian	jiu	after a long time (idiom)
天门冬	tian	dong	asparagus
天门冬科	tian	ke	Asparagaceae, family of flowering plants which includes asparagus
天门市	tian	shi	Tianmen sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
天问一号	tian	hao	Tianwen-1, Chinese mission to put a robotic rover on Mars launched in 2020
天际线	tian	xian	skyline; horizon
天雨路滑	tian	hua	roads are slippery due to rain (idiom)
天青石	tian	shi	lapis lazuli
天香国色	tian	se	divine fragrance, national grace (idiom); an outstanding beauty
天马行空	tian	kong	like a heavenly steed, soaring across the skies (idiom); (of writing, calligraphy etc) bold and imaginative; unconstrained in style
天高气爽	tian	shuang	see 秋高氣爽|秋高气爽[qiu1 gao1 qi4 shuang3]
天高皇帝远	tian	yuan	lit. the sky is high and the emperor is far away (idiom); fig. remote places are beyond the reach of the central government
天鸽座	tian	zuo	Columba (constellation)
天鹅座	tian	zuo	Cygnus (constellation)
天鹅湖	tian	hu	Swan Lake
天鹅绒	tian	rong	velvet; swan's down
天鹤座	tian	zuo	Grus (constellation)
天鹰座	tian	zuo	Aquila (constellation)
天龙人	tian	ren	(Tw) (slang) privileged people oblivious to the hardships of others; Taipei residents or urban dwellers who consider themselves superior to others (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 天竜人 "Tenryūjin", an arrogant, privileged group in the manga "One Piece")
天龙八部	tian	bu	Demigods and Semidevils, wuxia novel by Jin Yong 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] and its TV and screen adaptations
天龙国	tian	guo	(Tw) (slang) nickname for Taipei (implying that the residents are privileged, having access to abundant resources)
天龙座	tian	zuo	Draco (constellation)
太上皇	tai	huang	Taishang Huang; Retired Emperor; father of the reigning emperor
太乙金华宗旨	tai	zhi	The Secret of the Golden Flower, a classic of Chinese Taoism published in the late 17th century
太仆寺	tai	si	Court of imperial stud, office originally charged with horse breeding; Taibus banner in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
太仆寺卿	tai	qing	Minister of imperial stud, originally charged with horse breeding
太仆寺旗	tai	qi	Taibus Banner in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
太仓市	tai	shi	Taicang, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
太保市	tai	shi	Taibao or Taipao City in Chiayi County 嘉義縣|嘉义县[Jia1 yi4 Xian4], west Taiwan
太公兵法	tai	fa	alternative name for 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China
太公望	tai	wang	see Jiang Ziya 姜子牙[Jiang1 Zi3 ya2]
太公钓鱼愿者上钩	tai	gou	Jiang Ziya is fishing, if you want take the hook (idiom, refers to early sage 姜子牙 fishing with no bait and the hook above the water); to put one's head in the noose
太原市	tai	shi	Taiyuan, prefecture-level city and capital of Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
太古代	tai	dai	Archaeozoic (geological era before 2500m years ago)
太古宙	tai	zhou	Archaean (geological eon before 2500m years ago)
太古洋行	tai	hang	Butterfield and Swire (Hong Kong bank)
太史令	tai	ling	grand scribe (official position in many Chinese states up to the Han)
太史公	tai	gong	Grand Scribe, the title by which Sima Qian 司馬遷|司马迁[Si1 ma3 Qian1] refers to himself in Records of the Historian 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4]
太和区	tai	qu	Taihe, a district of Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
太和县	tai	xian	Taihe, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
太和殿	tai	dian	Hall of Supreme Harmony, the largest of the three halls that constitute the heart of the Outer Court of the Forbidden City 紫禁城[Zi3 jin4 cheng2]
太夫人	tai	ren	(old) dowager; old lady (title for the mother of a noble or an official)
太好了	tai	le	very good
太妃糖	tai	tang	(loanword) toffee; taffy
太子丹	tai	dan	Prince Dan of Yan (–226 BC), commissioned the attempted assassination of King Ying Zheng 嬴政[Ying2 Zheng4] of Qin 秦[Qin2] (later the First Emperor 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]) by Jing Ke 荊軻|荆轲[Jing1 Ke1] in 227 BC
太子党	tai	dang	princelings, descendants of senior communist officials (PRC)
太子十三峰	tai	feng	thirteen peaks of Meili Snow Mountains in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan; also written 梅里雪山[Mei2 li3 Xue3 shan1]
太子太保	tai	bao	tutor to the crown prince (in imperial China)
太子河	tai	he	see 太子河區|太子河区[Tai4 zi3 he2 Qu1]
太子河区	tai	qu	Taizihe, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
太子港	tai	gang	Port-au-Prince, capital of Haiti
太平公主	tai	zhu	Princess Taiping (c. 665-713), Tang Dynasty princess, politically powerful and known for her beauty
太平区	tai	qu	Taiping, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
太平天国	tai	guo	Taiping Heavenly Kingdom (1851-1864)
太平天国起义	tai	yi	Taiping Rebellion (1850–1864), a massive rebellion in southern China against the Qing Dynasty, led by Hong Xiuquan 洪秀全[Hong2 Xiu4 quan2], who sought to establish the Taiping Heavenly Kingdom 太平天國|太平天国[Tai4 ping2 Tian1 guo2], resulting in one of the deadliest conflicts in history with millions of casualties
太平广记	tai	ji	Extensive records of the Taiping era (978), fictional history edited by Li Fang 李昉
太平御览	tai	lan	Imperial Readings of the Taiping Era, general Song dynasty encyclopedia compiled during 977-983 under Li Fang 李昉[Li3 Fang3], 1000 scrolls
太平洋	tai	yang	Pacific Ocean
太平洋周边	tai	bian	variant of 太平洋週邊|太平洋周边[Tai4 ping2 Yang2 Zhou1 bian1], Pacific Rim
太平洋战争	tai	zheng	Pacific War between Japan and the US, 1941-1945
太平洋潜鸟	tai	niao	(bird species of China) Pacific loon (Gavia pacifica)
太平洋联合铁路	tai	lu	Union Pacific Railroad
太平盛世	tai	shi	peace and prosperity (idiom)
太平绅士	tai	shi	Justice of the Peace (JP)
太平门	tai	men	emergency exit
太平间	tai	jian	mortuary; morgue
太平鸟	tai	niao	(bird species of China) Bohemian waxwing (Bombycilla garrulus)
太康县	tai	xian	Taikang, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
太极剑	tai	jian	a kind of traditional Chinese sword-play
太极图	tai	tu	diagram of cosmological scheme; Yin-Yang symbol ☯
太极图说	tai	shuo	philosophical book by Song dynasty scholar Zhou Dunyi 周敦頤|周敦颐[Zhou1 Dun1 yi2], starting from an interpretation of the Book of Changes
太极拳	tai	quan	shadowboxing or Taiji, T'aichi or T'aichichuan; traditional form of physical exercise or relaxation; a martial art
太液池	tai	chi	area to the west of the Forbidden City, now divided into Zhongnanhai and Beihai
太湖县	tai	xian	Taihu, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
太爷爷	tai	ye	(coll.) father's father's father; paternal great-grandfather
太白县	tai	xian	Taibai, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
太白山	tai	shan	Mt Taibai in Shaanxi
太白星	tai	xing	Venus (planet)
太白粉	tai	fen	cornstarch; potato starch
太空人	tai	ren	astronaut
太空探索	tai	suo	space exploration
太空服	tai	fu	spacesuit
太空梭	tai	suo	space shuttle
太空步	tai	bu	moonwalk (dance)
太空游	tai	you	space tourism
太空漫步	tai	bu	space walk
太空站	tai	zhan	space station
太空舞步	tai	bu	moonwalk (dance)
太空舱	tai	cang	space capsule; ejection capsule (cabin)
太空船	tai	chuan	spaceship
太空行走	tai	zou	spacewalk
太空飞船	tai	chuan	Space Shuttle, US spacecraft system (1981-2011)
太行山	tai	shan	Taihang Mountains on the border between Hebei and Shanxi
太谷区	tai	qu	Taigu, a district of Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
太长不看	tai	kan	(Internet slang) TL;DR
太阳从西边出来	tai	lai	lit. the sun rises in the west (idiom); fig. hell freezes over; pigs can fly
太阳光	tai	guang	sunlight
太阳光柱	tai	zhu	solar pillar; sun pillar (atmospheric optics)
太阳微系统公司	tai	si	Sun Microsystems
太阳报	tai	bao	The Sun (the name of various newspapers, notably in the UK and in Hong Kong)
太阳日	tai	ri	solar day
太阳晒屁股	tai	gu	to have overslept; Rise and shine!
太阳活动	tai	dong	sunspot activity; solar variation
太阳灯	tai	deng	sunlamp
太阳照在桑干河上	tai	shang	"The Sun Shines over the Sanggan River", socialist realist novel by Ding Ling 丁玲[Ding1 Ling2], for which she was awarded the 1951 Stalin Prize for Literature
太阳电池	tai	chi	solar cell
太阳电池板	tai	ban	solar panel
太阳眼镜	tai	jing	sunglasses
太阳神	tai	shen	Sun God; Apollo
太阳神经丛	tai	cong	solar plexus chakra
太阳神计划	tai	hua	the Apollo project
太阳穴	tai	xue	temple (on the sides of human head)
太阳窗	tai	chuang	sun window; sun roof (of car)
太阳窝	tai	wo	temple (on the sides of human head)
太阳系	tai	xi	solar system
太阳翼	tai	yi	solar panel
太阳能	tai	neng	solar energy
太阳能板	tai	ban	solar panel
太阳能电池	tai	chi	solar cell
太阳花	tai	hua	sunflower (Helianthus annuus); rose moss (Portulaca grandiflora)
太阳蛋	tai	dan	fried egg; sunny-side-up egg
太阳轮	tai	lun	solar plexus chakra
太阳镜	tai	jing	sunglasses
太阳雨	tai	yu	sunshower
太阳风	tai	feng	solar wind
太阳风暴	tai	bao	solar storm
太阳饼	tai	bing	suncake (small round cake made with flaky pastry and a maltose filling, originally from Taichung, Taiwan)
太阳黑子	tai	zi	sunspot
太阳黑子周	tai	zhou	sunspot cycle
太鲁阁	tai	ge	Taroko National Park in Hualien County 花蓮縣|花莲县[Hua1 lian2 Xian4], Taiwan; Taroko ethnic group Taiwan
太鲁阁族	tai	zu	Taroko, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
夫唱妇随	fu	sui	fig. the man sings and the woman follows; fig. marital harmony
夫妻反目	fu	mu	man and wife fall out (idiom, from Book of Changes); marital strife
夫妻店	fu	dian	family-run shop
夫妻相	fu	xiang	similarity in features of an old couple; common facial traits that show predestination to be married together
夫妻肺片	fu	pian	popular Sichuan cold dish made of thinly sliced beef and beef offal
夫妻脸	fu	lian	see 夫妻相[fu1 qi1 xiang4]
夫子自道	fu	dao	appearing to be praising others while actually praising yourself; one's criticism of others exposes one's own faults
夯土机	hang	ji	rammer; tamper
失业率	shi	lv	unemployment rate
失业者	shi	zhe	an unemployed person
失之东隅收之桑榆	shi	yu	to lose at sunrise but gain at sunset (idiom); to compensate later for one's earlier loss; what you lose on the swings you gain on the roundabouts
失之交臂	shi	bi	to miss narrowly; to let a great opportunity slip
失之毫厘差之千里	shi	li	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失之毫厘差以千里	shi	li	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失之毫厘谬以千里	shi	li	a tiny lapse can lead to a huge mistake (idiom); a minor discrepancy leading to enormous losses
失体统	shi	tong	lacking in propriety; bad form
失体面	shi	mian	to lose face
失信被执行人	shi	ren	(law) judgement defaulter (person who has failed to fulfill obligations set forth in a written court judgement, such as paying compensation to sb, despite having the means to do so); debt dodger
失写症	shi	zheng	agraphia
失去后劲	shi	jin	to peter out; to lose momentum; to lose steam
失张失智	shi	zhi	out of one's mind
失忆症	shi	zheng	amnesia
失效日期	shi	qi	expiry date (of document)
失明症	shi	zheng	blindness
失智症	shi	zheng	(Tw) dementia
失温症	shi	zheng	hypothermia
失物招领	shi	ling	lost-and-found
失物认领	shi	ling	lost and found
失独家庭	shi	ting	a family bereaved of its only child
失而复得	shi	de	to lose sth and then regain it (idiom)
失血性贫血	shi	xue	blood loss anemia
失语症	shi	zheng	aphasia or aphemia (loss of language)
失读症	shi	zheng	alexia
失调电压	shi	ya	offset voltage
失败主义	shi	yi	defeatism
失败是成功之母	shi	mu	Failure is the mother of success.
失败者	shi	zhe	loser
失身分	shi	fen	demeaning
失道寡助	shi	zhu	an unjust cause finds little support (idiom, from Mencius); cf 得道多助[de2 dao4 duo1 zhu4] a just cause attracts much support
失面子	shi	zi	to lose face; to be humiliated
失魂丧魄	shi	po	see 喪魂失魄|丧魂失魄[sang4 hun2 shi1 po4]
失魂落魄	shi	po	(idiom) dazed; beside oneself
头一回	tou	hui	the first time; for the first time
头信息	tou	xi	header (computing)
头倒立	tou	li	headstand
头儿脑儿	tou	r	leading figure; bigwig
头半天	tou	tian	morning; first half of the day
头半天儿	tou	r	erhua variant of 頭半天|头半天[tou2 ban4 tian1]
头发胡子一把抓	tou	zhua	lit. hair and beard all in one stroke; fig. to handle different things by the same method; one method to solve all problems
头号字	tou	zi	largest typeface; biggest letters
头向前	tou	qian	headlong
头头是道	tou	dao	clear and logical
头孢噻吩	tou	fen	(pharm.) cefalotin (aka cephalothin)
头孢拉定	tou	ding	(pharm.) cefradine (aka cephradine)
头孢菌素	tou	su	(pharm.) cephalosporin
头对头	tou	tou	(of clinical trial) head-to-head
头屯河	tou	he	see 頭屯河區|头屯河区[Tou2 tun2 he2 Qu1]
头屯河区	tou	qu	Toutunhe, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
头悬梁锥刺股	tou	gu	lit. with his head attached to a beam and stabbing his thigh with an awl (idiom); fig. to study assiduously and tirelessly
头戴式耳机	tou	ji	headphones
头文字	tou	zi	initial; first letter of word (in Latin script)
头昏目晕	tou	yun	see 頭昏目眩|头昏目眩[tou2 hun1 mu4 xuan4]
头昏目眩	tou	xuan	(idiom) dazed; dizzy
头昏眼晕	tou	yun	head spinning and blurred vision; giddy; in a faint
头昏眼暗	tou	an	head spinning and eyes dark (idiom); dizzy; fainting; vertigo
头昏眼花	tou	hua	to faint with blurred vision (idiom); dizzy and eyes dimmed
头昏脑涨	tou	zhang	variant of 頭昏腦脹|头昏脑胀[tou2 hun1 nao3 zhang4]
头昏脑眩	tou	xuan	dizzying; it makes one's head spin
头昏脑胀	tou	zhang	(idiom) to feel giddy; to feel dizzy; one's head spins
头昏脑闷	tou	men	fainting and giddy; one's head spins
头晕目眩	tou	xuan	(idiom) to have a dizzy spell; dazzled
头晕眼花	tou	hua	to faint with blurred vision (idiom); dizzy and eyes dimmed
头晕脑涨	tou	zhang	variant of 頭暈腦脹|头晕脑胀[tou2 yun1 nao3 zhang4]
头晕脑胀	tou	zhang	dizzy and light-headed
头朝下	tou	xia	(falling or suspended) head downwards; headfirst; headlong
头期款	tou	kuan	down payment
头条新闻	tou	wen	top news story
头痛医头	tou	tou	to treat the symptoms; reactive (rather than proactive)
头痛医头脚痛医脚	tou	jiao	to treat the symptoms rather than getting to the root of the problem (proverb); reactive (rather than proactive)
头痛欲裂	tou	lie	to have a splitting headache (idiom)
头皮屑	tou	xie	dandruff
头盖骨	tou	gu	skull; cranium
头破血流	tou	liu	lit. head broken and blood flowing; fig. badly bruised
头等舱	tou	cang	1st class cabin
头箍儿	tou	r	erhua form of 頭箍|头箍[tou2 gu1]
头索类	tou	lei	lancelet (Branchiostoma)
头胸部	tou	bu	cephalothorax
头脑发胀	tou	zhang	swelling of the head (physical condition); fig. swellheaded; conceited
头脑清楚	tou	chu	lucid; clear-headed; sensible
头脑简单四肢发达	tou	da	all brawn no brains
头脑风暴	tou	bao	brainstorming
头脸儿	tou	r	erhua variant of 頭臉|头脸[tou2 lian3]
头角峥嵘	tou	rong	promise of brilliant young person (idiom); showing extraordinary gifts
头足纲	tou	gang	Cephalopoda, class of mollusks including nautilus and squid
头重脚轻	tou	qing	top-heavy; fig. unbalance in organization or political structure
头面人物	tou	wu	leading figure; bigwig
夷为平地	yi	di	to level; to raze to the ground
夷陵区	yi	qu	Yiling, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
夸下海口	kua	kou	see 誇海口|夸海口[kua1 hai3 kou3]
夸休可尔症	kua	zheng	kwashiorkor (medicine)
夸多斗靡	kua	mi	(idiom) to use literary phrases in one's writing to show off one's erudition
夸大之词	kua	ci	hyperbole; exaggeration
夸大其词	kua	ci	to exaggerate
夸夸其谈	kua	tan	variant of 誇誇其談|夸夸其谈[kua1 kua1 qi2 tan2]
夸海口	kua	kou	to boast; to talk big
夹七夹八	jia	ba	completely mixed up; in a muddle
夹塞儿	jia	r	variant of 加塞兒|加塞儿[jia1 sai1 r5]
夹娃娃	jia	wa	(coll.) to induce an abortion (Tw)
夹娃娃机	jia	ji	claw machine
夹子音	jia	yin	(coll.) (neologism, attested by 2021) cutesy high-pitched voice
夹尾巴	jia	ba	to have one's tail between one's legs
夹山国家森林公园	jia	yuan	Jiashan National Forest Park in Shimen 石門|石门[Shi2 men2], Changde 常德[Chang2 de2], Hunan
夹山寺	jia	si	Jiashan Temple, Buddhist temple in Shimen county 石門縣|石门县[Shi2 men2 xian4], Changde 常德[Chang2 de2], Hunan, the purported final home and burial place of late Ming peasant rebel leader Li Zicheng 李自成[Li3 Zi4 cheng2]
夹当儿	jia	r	erhua variant of 夾當|夹当[jia1 dang1]
夹心族	jia	zu	sandwich generation
夹心饼干	jia	gan	sandwich cookie; (jocular) sb who is caught between two opposing parties; sb who is between the hammer and the anvil
夹江县	jia	xian	Jiajiang, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
夹生饭	jia	fan	half-cooked rice; (fig.) half-finished job that is difficult to complete because it was not done properly in the first instance
夹竹桃	jia	tao	oleander (Nerium oleander)
夹肢窝	ga	wo	variant of 胳肢窩|胳肢窝[ga1 zhi5 wo1]
夹脚拖	jia	tuo	flip-flops
夹脚拖鞋	jia	xie	flip-flops
夹起尾巴	jia	ba	to tuck one's tail between one's legs; fig. to back down; in a humiliating situation
夹道欢迎	jia	ying	to line the streets in welcome
夹链袋	jia	dai	resealable bag; ziplock bag
夺门而出	duo	chu	to rush out through a door (idiom)
奄奄一息	yan	xi	dying; at one's last gasp
奇丑无比	qi	bi	extremely ugly; incomparably hideous
奇亚籽	qi	zi	(loanword) chia seed
奇偶性	ji	xing	parity (odd or even)
奇函数	ji	shu	odd function (math.)
奇努克	qi	ke	Chinook (helicopter)
奇卡诺人	qi	ren	Chicano; Chicana; Mexican American
奇台县	qi	xian	Qitai, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
奇异夸克	qi	ke	strange quark (particle physics)
奇异果	qi	guo	kiwi fruit; Chinese gooseberry
奇异笔	qi	bi	marker (writing instrument)
奇形怪状	qi	zhuang	fantastic oddities of every description (idiom); grotesquely shaped
奇思妙想	qi	xiang	an unconventional but wonderful idea
奇文共赏	qi	shang	lit. remarkable work appreciated by all (idiom); universally praised (original meaning); incomprehensible nonsense; preposterous bullshit
奇珍异宝	qi	bao	rare treasure (idiom)
奇瓦瓦	qi	wa	Chihuahua, Mexico
奇耻大辱	qi	ru	(idiom) a great humiliation; a huge embarrassment
奇能异士	qi	shi	extraordinary hero with special abilities; martial arts superhero
奇花异卉	qi	hui	see 奇花異草|奇花异草[qi2 hua1 yi4 cao3]
奇花异草	qi	cao	(idiom) rare or exotic flowers and plants
奇葩异卉	qi	hui	see 奇花異草|奇花异草[qi2 hua1 yi4 cao3]
奇装异服	qi	fu	bizarre dress
奇谈怪论	qi	lun	strange tales and absurd arguments (idiom); unreasonable remarks
奇货可居	qi	ju	rare commodity worth hoarding; object for profiteering
奇蹄目	ji	mu	Perissodactyla; order of odd-toed ungulate (including horse, tapir, rhinoceros)
奇蹄类	ji	lei	Perissodactyla (odd-toed ungulates, such as horses, zebras etc)
奇门遁甲	qi	jia	Qimen Dunjia, an ancient system of occult arts used for divination and strategic planning
奈及利亚	nai	ya	(Tw) Nigeria
奈曼旗	nai	qi	Naiman banner or Naiman khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
奈洛比	nai	bi	Nairobi, capital of Kenya (Tw)
奈良时代	nai	dai	Nara period (710-794) in early Japanese history
奉为圭臬	feng	nie	to take as a guiding principle (idiom)
奉公克己	feng	ji	self-restraint and devotion to public duties (idiom); selfless dedication; to serve the public interest wholeheartedly
奉公守法	feng	fa	to carry out official duties and observe the law
奉化区	feng	qu	Fenghua, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
奉子成婚	feng	hun	to marry after getting pregnant
奉承讨好	feng	hao	to curry favor; to get the desired outcome by flattery
奉新县	feng	xian	Fengxin, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
奉献精神	feng	shen	spirit of devotion; dedication
奉申贺敬	feng	jing	polite congratulations (i.e. on a greeting card)
奉系军阀	feng	fa	Fengtian clique (of northern warlords)
奉节县	feng	xian	Fengjie, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
奉若神明	feng	ming	to honor sb as a God (idiom); to revere; to worship; to deify
奉贤区	feng	qu	Fengxian suburban district of Shanghai
奉辛比克党	feng	dang	Funcinpec (royalist Cambodian political party)
奋不顾身	fen	shen	to dash on bravely with no thought of personal safety (idiom); undaunted by dangers; regardless of perils
奋发图强	fen	qiang	to work energetically for prosperity (of the country)
奋武扬威	fen	wei	a show of strength
奋笔疾书	fen	shu	to write at a tremendous speed
奋起直追	fen	zhui	to catch up vigorously; to set off in hot pursuit
奋进号	fen	hao	Space Shuttle Endeavor
奎宁水	kui	shui	tonic water; quinine water
奎屯市	kui	shi	Kuytun, a county-level city in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
奎文区	kui	qu	Kuiwen, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
奏鸣曲	zou	qu	sonata
奏鸣曲式	zou	shi	sonata form (one of the large-scale structures used in Western classical music)
契丹国志	qi	zhi	History of the Liao Dynasty, 13th-century book on the history of the Khitan Empire (916-1125)
契沙比克湾	qi	wan	Chesapeake Bay
契约桥牌	qi	pai	contract bridge (card game)
契约精神	qi	shen	culture of honoring contractual obligations
契诃夫	qi	fu	Anton Pavlovich Chekhov (1860-1904), Russian writer famous for his short stories and plays
奔头儿	ben	r	erhua variant of 奔頭|奔头[ben4 tou5]
奔奔族	ben	zu	lit. Rushing Clan, generation born between 1975-1985 and China's most hedonistic and hard-working social group (netspeak)
奔走相告	ben	gao	to spread the news (idiom)
奖励旅游	jiang	you	incentive travel
奖励旅行	jiang	xing	incentive travel
奖学金	jiang	jin	scholarship; CL:筆|笔[bi3]
奖牌榜	jiang	bang	medal table; tally of trophies; list of prizewinners
套中人	tao	ren	a conservative
套交情	tao	qing	to try to gain sb's friendship
套利者	tao	zhe	arbitrager
套口供	tao	gong	to trap a suspect into a confession
套期保值	tao	zhi	to hedge (one's bets); to defend against risk
套牌车	tao	che	car with fake plates
套筒扳手	tao	shou	socket spanner
套衫儿	tao	r	a pullover
套近乎	tao	hu	to worm one's way into being friends with sb (usually derogatory)
套马杆	tao	gan	lasso on long wooden pole
奚啸伯	xi	bo	Xi Xiaobo (1910-1977), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
奠基人	dian	ren	founder; pioneer
奠基石	dian	shi	foundation stone; cornerstone
奠基者	dian	zhe	founder; pioneer
奠济宫	dian	gong	Dianji Temple in Keelung, Taiwan
奢侈品	she	pin	luxury item
奥丁谐振器	ao	qi	Oudin coil; Oudin resonator
奥克兰	ao	lan	Auckland (New Zealand city); Oakland (California, US city)
奥克拉荷马	ao	ma	Oklahoma, US state (Tw)
奥克苏斯河	ao	he	Oxus River; alternative name for Amu Darya 阿姆河[A1 mu3 He2]
奥兰多	ao	duo	Orlando
奥兰群岛	ao	dao	Åland Islands, Finland
奥切诺斯	ao	si	Oceanus, a Titan in Greek mythology
奥利奥	ao	ao	Oreo cookies
奥利安	ao	an	Orion (constellation, loan word); also written 獵戶座|猎户座
奥利给	ao	gei	(neologism c. 2020) come on, you can do it!
奥利维亚	ao	ya	Olivia (name)
奥匈帝国	ao	guo	Austro-Hungarian Empire 1867–1918
奥卡姆剃刀	ao	dao	Occam's razor
奥古斯塔	ao	ta	Augusta (place name: capital of Maine, city in Georgia etc)
奥古斯都	ao	du	Augustus (name)
奥司他韦	ao	wei	(loanword) oseltamivir
奥地利	ao	li	Austria
奥塞梯	ao	ti	Ossetia (ethnolinguistic region in the Caucasus Mountains)
奥塞罗	ao	luo	variant of 奧賽羅|奥赛罗[Ao4 sai4 luo2]
奥姆真理教	ao	jiao	Aum Shinrikyo (or Supreme Truth), the Japanese death cult responsible for the 1995 sarin gas attack on the Tokyo subway
奥委会	ao	hui	Olympic committee
奥威尔	ao	er	Orwell (name); George Orwell (1903-1950), British novelist, author of Animal Farm 動物農場|动物农场 and 1984 一九八四年
奥密克戎	ao	rong	omicron (Greek letter Ο, ο)
奥尔巴尼	ao	ni	Albany, New York
奥尔布赖特	ao	te	Madeleine Albright (1937–2022), US Secretary of State 1997–2001
奥尔德尼岛	ao	dao	Alderney (Channel Islands)
奥尔良	ao	liang	Orléans
奥巴马	ao	ma	Barack Obama (1961–), US Democrat politician, president 2009–2017
奥布里	ao	li	Aubrey (name)
奥康内尔	ao	er	O'Connell (name); Daniel O'Connell (1775-1847), Irish nationalist and catholic activist
奥康纳	ao	na	O'Connor (name); Thomas Power O'Connor (1848-1929), Irish journalist and nationalist political leader
奥德修斯	ao	si	Odysseus
奥德赛	ao	sai	Homer's Odyssey
奥斯丁	ao	ding	Austin or Austen (name); Austin, Texas; also written 奧斯汀|奥斯汀[Ao4 si1 ting1]
奥斯卡	ao	ka	(film industry) Oscar (Academy Award); CL:屆|届[jie4]; (name) Oscar
奥斯卡金像奖	ao	jiang	an Academy Award; an Oscar
奥斯威辛	ao	xin	Auschwitz (concentration camp)
奥斯威辛集中营	ao	ying	Auschwitz concentration camp
奥斯曼	ao	man	Ottoman (empire)
奥斯曼帝国	ao	guo	Ottoman Empire (1299–1922)
奥斯汀	ao	ting	Austin or Austen (name); Austin, Texas
奥斯特洛夫斯基	ao	ji	Nikolai Ostrovsky (1904-1936), Soviet socialist realist writer; Alexander Ostrovsky (1823-1886), Russian playwright
奥斯瓦尔德	ao	de	Oswald
奥斯维辛	ao	xin	Auschwitz (concentration camp)
奥斯陆	ao	lu	Oslo, capital of Norway
奥朗德	ao	de	François Hollande (1954-), French Socialist politician, president of France 2012-2017
奥林匹亚	ao	ya	Olympia (Greece)
奥林匹克	ao	ke	Olympic
奥林匹克体育场	ao	chang	Olympic Stadium
奥林匹克运动会	ao	hui	Olympic Games; the Olympics
奥林巴斯	ao	si	Olympus, Japanese manufacturer of cameras and optical instruments
奥氏体	ao	ti	(metallurgy) austenite; austenitic
奥波莱	ao	lai	Opole, city in Poland
奥特曼	ao	man	Ultraman, Japanese science fiction superhero
奥特朗托	ao	tuo	Otranto city on the southeast heel of Italy
奥特朗托海峡	ao	xia	Strait of Otranto between the heel of Italy and Albania
奥特莱斯	ao	si	outlets (loanword); retail outlet (e.g. specializing in seconds of famous brands); factory outlet retail store
奥米伽	ao	ga	omega (Greek letter Ω, ω); also pr. [ao4mi3jia1]
奥纳西斯	ao	si	Onassis (name); Aristotle Onassis (1906-1975), Greek shipping magnate
奥组委	ao	wei	Olympic Organizing Committee (abbr. for 奧林匹克運動會組織委員會|奥林匹克运动会组织委员会[Ao4 lin2 pi3 ke4 Yun4 dong4 hui4 Zu3 zhi1 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
奥维耶多	ao	duo	Oviedo (Asturian: Uviéu), capital of Asturias in northwest Spain
奥胡斯	ao	si	Aarhus, city in Denmark
奥腊涅斯塔德	ao	de	Oranjestad, capital of Aruba 阿魯巴|阿鲁巴[A1 lu3 ba1]
奥西娜斯	ao	si	Oceanus, a Titan in Greek mythology
奥赖恩	ao	en	Orion (NASA spacecraft)
奥赛罗	ao	luo	Othello (play by Shakespeare)
奥运会	ao	hui	Olympic Games; the Olympics (abbr. for 奧林匹克運動會|奥林匹克运动会[Ao4 lin2 pi3 ke4 Yun4 dong4 hui4])
奥运村	ao	cun	Olympic Village
奥运赛	ao	sai	Olympic Games
奥迪修斯	ao	si	Odysseus, hero of Homer's Odyssey
奥里萨邦	ao	bang	Odisha (formerly Orissa), eastern Indian state
奥里里亚	ao	ya	Aurelia, a hypothetical planet
奥陌陌	ao	mo	ʻOumuamua (interstellar object)
奥陶系	ao	xi	Ordovician system (geology)
奥陶纪	ao	ji	Ordovician (geological period 495-440m years ago)
奥马哈	ao	ha	Omaha
奥马尔	ao	er	Omar (Arabic name)
奥黛丽	ao	li	Audrey
奥黛莉	ao	li	Audrey; variant of 奧黛麗|奥黛丽[Ao4 dai4 li4]
女上位	nv	wei	woman-on-top sex position
女主人	nv	ren	hostess; mistress
女主人公	nv	gong	heroine (of a novel or film); main female protagonist
女主角	nv	jue	female lead; female protagonist
女乘务员	nv	yuan	stewardess; female flight attendant
女人家	nv	jia	women (in general)
女人气	nv	qi	womanly temperament; femininity; effeminate (of male)
女体盛	nv	cheng	nyotaimori or "body sushi", Japanese practice of serving sushi on the body of a naked woman
女修道院	nv	yuan	convent
女傧相	nv	xiang	bridesmaid
女儿墙	nv	qiang	crenelated parapet wall
女儿红	nv	hong	kind of Chinese wine
女公子	nv	zi	noble lady; (honorific) your daughter
女公爵	nv	jue	duchess
女同胞	nv	bao	woman; female; female compatriot
女士优先	nv	xian	Ladies first!
女大不中留	nv	liu	when a girl is of age, she must be married off (idiom)
女大十八变	nv	bian	lit. a girl changes eighteen times between childhood and womanhood (idiom); fig. a young woman is very different from the little girl she once was
女娲氏	nv	shi	Nüwa (creator of humans in Chinese mythology)
女子参政权	nv	quan	women's suffrage
女子无才便是德	nv	de	a woman's virtue is to have no talent (idiom)
女孩儿	nv	r	erhua form of 女孩[nu : 3 hai2]
女孩子	nv	zi	girl
女店员	nv	yuan	salesgirl; female shop assistant
女强人	nv	ren	successful career woman; able woman
女性主义	nv	yi	feminism
女性割礼	nv	li	female genital mutilation
女性化	nv	hua	to feminize; feminization
女性厌恶	nv	wu	misogyny
女性贬抑	nv	yi	misogyny
女房东	nv	dong	landlady
女扮男装	nv	zhuang	(of a woman) to dress as a man (idiom)
女朋友	nv	you	girlfriend
女权主义	nv	yi	feminism
女武神	nv	shen	valkyrie
女汉子	nv	zi	masculine woman
女生外向	nv	xiang	a woman is born to leave her family (idiom); a woman's heart is with her husband
女皇帝	nv	di	empress; refers to Tang empress Wuzetian 武則天|武则天 (624-705), reigned 690-705
女真语	nv	yu	Jurchen language
女神蛤	nv	ge	geoduck (Panopea abrupta); elephant trunk clam; same as 象拔蚌[xiang4 ba2 bang4]
女管家	nv	jia	housekeeper
女继承人	nv	ren	inheritress
女舍监	nv	jian	matron
女衬衫	nv	shan	blouse
女警员	nv	yuan	a policewoman
女高音	nv	yin	soprano
奴儿干	nu	gan	part of Heilongjiang and the Vladivostok area ruled by the Ming dynasty
奴儿干都司	nu	si	the Ming dynasty provincial headquarters in the Heilongjiang and Vladivostok area
奴隶主	nu	zhu	slave owner
奴隶制	nu	zhi	slavery
奴隶制度	nu	du	slavery
奴隶社会	nu	hui	slave-owning society (precedes feudal society 封建社會|封建社会 in Marxist theory)
奴颜婢膝	nu	xi	servile and bending the knee (idiom); fawning; bending and scraping to curry favor
奶制品	nai	pin	dairy product
奶嘴儿	nai	r	erhua variant of 奶嘴[nai3 zui3]
奶头乐	nai	le	(calque of "tittytainment") low-brow entertainment that distracts the poor from their circumstances; mindless entertainment
奶奶灰	nai	hui	granny gray (hair color)
奶奶的	nai	de	damn it!; blast it!
奶汁烤	nai	kao	gratin
奶油小生	nai	sheng	handsome but effeminate man; pretty boy
奶油果	nai	guo	avocado
奶油菜花	nai	hua	creamed cauliflower
奶油鸡蛋	nai	dan	cream sponge
奶牛场	nai	chang	dairy farm
奶白菜	nai	cai	milk cabbage (aka "white bok choy" and various other names), a variety of bok choy
奶皇包	nai	bao	variant of 奶黃包|奶黄包[nai3 huang2 bao1]
奶蛋素	nai	su	ovo-lacto vegetarian
奶酪火锅	nai	guo	fondue
奶黄包	nai	bao	custard bun
奸夫淫妇	jian	fu	adulterous couple
奸官污吏	jian	li	traitor minister and corrupt official (idiom); abuse and corruption
她经济	ta	ji	"she-economy" reflecting women's economic contribution; euphemism for prostitution-based economy
好不好	hao	hao	(coll.) all right?; OK?
好不容易	hao	yi	with great difficulty; very difficult
好为人师	hao	shi	to like to lecture others (idiom)
好久不见	hao	jian	long time no see
好了伤疤忘了疼	hao	teng	to forget past pains once the wound has healed (idiom)
好了疮疤忘了痛	hao	tong	see 好了傷疤忘了疼|好了伤疤忘了疼[hao3 le5 shang1 ba1 wang4 le5 teng2]
好事之徒	hao	tu	busybody
好事多磨	hao	mo	the road to happiness is strewn with setbacks (idiom)
好事者	hao	zhe	busybody; CL:個|个[ge4]
好人好事	hao	shi	admirable people and exemplary deeds
好借好还再借不难	hao	nan	see 有借有還，再借不難|有借有还，再借不难[you3 jie4 you3 huan2 , zai4 jie4 bu4 nan2]
好兵帅克	hao	ke	The Good Soldier Švejk (Schweik), satirical novel by Czech author Jaroslav Hašek (1883-1923)
好几年	hao	nian	several years
好半天	hao	tian	most of the day
好又多	hao	duo	Trust-Mart (supermarket chain)
好吃懒做	hao	zuo	happy to partake but not prepared to do any work (idiom); all take and no give
好大喜功	hao	gong	to rejoice in grandiose deeds; to strive to achieve extraordinary things
好奇尚异	hao	yi	to have a taste for the exotic (idiom)
好奇心	hao	xin	interest in sth; curiosity; inquisitive
好好儿	hao	r	erhua form of 好好[hao3 hao3]
好好先生	hao	sheng	Mr Goody-goody; yes-man (sb who agrees with anything)
好好学习天天向上	hao	shang	study hard and every day you will improve (idiom)
好家伙	hao	huo	my God!; oh boy!; man!
好容易	hao	yi	(idiomatic usage) with great difficulty; to have a hard time (convincing sb, relinquishing sth etc); (literal usage) so easy
好市多	hao	duo	(Tw) Costco (warehouse club chain)
好心人	hao	ren	kindhearted person; good Samaritan
好心当成驴肝肺	hao	fei	(saying) to mistake good intentions for ill will
好意思	hao	si	to have the nerve; what a cheek!; to feel no shame
好戏还在后头	hao	tou	the best part of the show is yet to come; (with ironic tone) the worst is yet to come; you ain't seen nothin' yet
好整以暇	hao	xia	to be calm and unruffled in the midst of chaos or at a busy time (idiom)
好日子	hao	zi	auspicious day; good day; happy life
好景不长	hao	chang	a good thing doesn't last forever (idiom)
好朋友	hao	you	good friend; (slang) a visit from Aunt Flo (menstrual period)
好望角	hao	jiao	Cape of Good Hope
好样的	hao	de	(idiom) a good person, used to praise sb's moral integrity or courage
好梦难成	hao	cheng	a beautiful dream is hard to realize (idiom)
好死不如赖活着	hao	zhe	better a bad life than a good death (idiom)
好气又好笑	hao	xiao	see 又好氣又好笑|又好气又好笑[you4 hao3 qi4 you4 hao3 xiao4]
好汉不吃眼前亏	hao	kui	a wise man knows better than to fight when the odds are against him (idiom)
好汉不提当年勇	hao	yong	a real man doesn't boast about his past achievements (idiom)
好汉做事好汉当	hao	dang	daring to act and courageous enough to take responsibility for it (idiom); a true man has the courage to accept the consequences of his actions; the buck stops here
好活当赏	hao	shang	(coll.) bravo; nice one; lovely
好玩儿	hao	r	erhua variant of 好玩[hao3 wan2]
好男不跟女斗	hao	dou	a real man doesn't fight with womenfolk (idiom)
好立克	hao	ke	Horlicks (brand of malted milk powder for making a hot drink)
好端端	hao	duan	perfectly all right; without rhyme or reason
好聚好散	hao	san	to part without hard feelings; to cut the knot as smoothly as you tied it
好自为之	hao	zhi	to do one's best; to shape up; to fend for oneself; you're on your own
好色之徒	hao	tu	lecher; womanizer; dirty old man
好莱坞	hao	wu	Hollywood; also pr. [Hao3lai2wu1]
好言好语	hao	yu	sincere, well-meant, kind words
好记性不如烂笔头	hao	tou	the palest ink is better than the best memory (idiom)
好说歹说	hao	shuo	(idiom) to try one's very best to persuade sb; to reason with sb in every way possible
好起来	hao	lai	to get better; to improve; to get well
好运符	hao	fu	good luck charm
好逸恶劳	hao	lao	to love ease and comfort and hate work (idiom)
好酒沉瓮底	hao	di	lit. the best wine is at the bottom of the jug (idiom); fig. the best is saved for last
好酒贪杯	hao	bei	fond of the bottle (idiom)
好面子	hao	zi	to be overly concerned with face
好饭不怕晚	hao	wan	the meal is remembered long after the wait is forgotten; the good things in life are worth waiting for
好马不吃回头草	hao	cao	lit. a good horse doesn't turn around and graze the same patch again (idiom); fig. once you've moved on, don't go back again (romantic relationship, job etc); leave the past behind
好高骛远	hao	yuan	to bite off more than one can chew (idiom); to aim too high
如东县	ru	xian	Rudong, a county in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
如丧考妣	ru	bi	(lit.) as if in mourning for one's parents (idiom); (fig.) (often pejorative) inconsolable; distraught
如临大敌	ru	di	lit. as if meeting a great enemy (idiom); fig. cautious; with great preoccupation
如临深渊	ru	yuan	(lit.) as if on the brink of a deep abyss (idiom); (fig.) extremely cautious
如人饮水冷暖自知	ru	zhi	the person who drinks it knows best whether the water is hot or cold (Zen proverb); self-awareness comes from within; to know best by personal experience
如假包换	ru	huan	replacement guaranteed if not genuine; fig. authentic
如其所好	ru	hao	as one pleases (idiom)
如出一辙	ru	zhe	to be precisely the same; to be no different
如坐针毡	ru	zhan	lit. as if sitting on pins and needles (idiom); fig. to be in an uncomfortable situation
如堕五里雾中	ru	zhong	as if lost in a thick fog (idiom); in a fog; muddled
如堕烟雾	ru	wu	as if degenerating into smoke (idiom); ignorant and unable to see where things are heading
如夫人	ru	ren	(old) concubine
如履薄冰	ru	bing	(lit.) as if walking on thin ice (idiom); (fig.) extremely cautious
如影随形	ru	xing	(lit.) as the shadow follows the body (idiom); (fig.) closely associated with each other; inseparable; to follow relentlessly
如意套	ru	tao	(dialect) condom
如意算盘	ru	pan	counting one's chickens before they are hatched
如意郎君	ru	jun	ideal husband; Mr. Right
如愿以偿	ru	chang	to have one's wish fulfilled
如数家珍	ru	zhen	lit. as if enumerating one's family valuables (idiom); fig. to be very familiar with a matter
如无其事	ru	shi	see 若無其事|若无其事[ruo4 wu2 qi2 shi4]
如日中天	ru	tian	lit. like the sun at noon (idiom); fig. to be at the peak of one's power, career etc
如是我闻	ru	wen	so I have heard (idiom); the beginning clause of Buddha's quotations as recorded by his disciple, Ananda (Buddhism)
如有所失	ru	shi	to seem as if something is amiss (idiom)
如来佛	ru	fo	Tathagata, one of the ten sacred names of Buddha
如来佛的掌心	ru	xin	the palm of the Buddha's hand (a metaphor for a higher authority or force from whose control one cannot break free, from 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4], "Journey to the West")
如果说	ru	shuo	if; if one were to say
如此这般	ru	ban	thus and so; such and such
如法泡制	ru	zhi	see 如法炮製|如法炮制[ru2 fa3 pao2 zhi4]
如法炮制	ru	zhi	lit. to follow the recipe (idiom); fig. to follow a set pattern
如泣如诉	ru	su	(lit.) as if weeping and complaining (idiom); (fig.) (of music, singing etc) mournful
如火如荼	ru	tu	like wildfire (idiom); unstoppable
如狼似虎	ru	hu	lit. like wolves and tigers; ruthless
如痴如醉	ru	zui	(idiom) enthralled; mesmerized; enraptured
如皋市	ru	shi	Rugao, a county-level city in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
如簧之舌	ru	she	lit. a tongue like a reed (idiom); fig. a glib tongue
如约而至	ru	zhi	to arrive as planned; right on schedule
如胶似漆	ru	qi	stuck together as by glue (of lovers); joined at the hip
如臂使指	ru	zhi	as the arm moves the finger (idiom); freely and effortlessly; to have perfect command of
如花似玉	ru	yu	delicate as a flower, refined as a precious jade (idiom); (of a woman) exquisite
如获至宝	ru	bao	as if gaining the most precious treasure
如虎添翼	ru	yi	lit. like a tiger that has grown wings; with redoubled power (idiom)
如蚁附膻	ru	shan	like ants pursuing a stink (idiom); the mob chases the rich and powerful; the crowd runs after trash
如蛆附骨	ru	gu	lit. like maggots feeding on a corpse (idiom); fig. fixed on sth; to cling on without letting go
如蝇逐臭	ru	chou	like flies pursuing a stink (idiom); the mob chases the rich and powerful; the crowd runs after trash
如诉如泣	ru	qi	see 如泣如訴|如泣如诉[ru2 qi4 ru2 su4]
如诗如画	ru	hua	(of scenery) stunning; spectacular; picturesque
如醉如痴	ru	chi	see 如癡如醉|如痴如醉[ru2 chi1 ru2 zui4]
如释重负	ru	fu	as if relieved from a burden (idiom); to have a weight off one's mind
如金似玉	ru	yu	like gold or jade (idiom); gorgeous; lovely
如雷灌耳	ru	er	variant of 如雷貫耳|如雷贯耳[ru2 lei2 guan4 er3]
如雷贯耳	ru	er	lit. like thunder piercing the ear; a well-known reputation (idiom)
如饥似渴	ru	ke	to hunger for sth (idiom); eagerly; to long for sth
如鱼得水	ru	shui	like a fish back in water (idiom); glad to be back in one's proper surroundings
如鲠在喉	ru	hou	lit. as if having a fish bone stuck in one's throat (idiom); fig. very upset and needing to express one's displeasure
如鸟兽散	ru	san	(lit.) to scatter like birds and beasts (idiom); (fig.) to flee in all directions
妃子笑	fei	xiao	concubine's smile, a cultivar of lychee
妄下雌黄	wang	huang	to alter a text indiscriminately (idiom); to make irresponsible criticism
妄想狂	wang	kuang	paranoia; megalomaniac
妄想症	wang	zheng	delusional disorder; (fig.) paranoia
妄生穿凿	wang	zao	a forced analogy (idiom); to jump to an unwarranted conclusion
妄自尊大	wang	da	ridiculous self-importance (idiom); arrogance
妄自菲薄	wang	bo	to be unduly humble (idiom); to undervalue oneself
妄言妄听	wang	ting	unwarranted talk the listener can take or leave (idiom); sth not to be taken too seriously
妇产科	fu	ke	department of gynecology and obstetrics; birth clinic
妇人之仁	fu	ren	excessive tendency to clemency (idiom); soft-hearted (pejorative)
妇女主任	fu	ren	director of the local committee of the Women's Federation
妇女能顶半边天	fu	tian	Woman can hold up half the sky; fig. nowadays, women have an equal part to play in society
妇女节	fu	jie	International Women's Day (March 8)
妇女运动	fu	dong	women's movement; feminism
妇姑勃溪	fu	xi	dispute among womenfolk (idiom); family squabbles
妇孺皆知	fu	zhi	understood by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
妇洗器	fu	qi	bidet
妇道人家	fu	jia	woman (derog.)
妈了个巴子	ma	zi	fuck!; motherfucker!; fucking
妈卖批	ma	pi	(vulgar) your mom's a prostitute (from Sichuan pronunciation of 媽賣屄|妈卖屄[ma1 mai4 bi1])
妈妈桑	ma	sang	(from Japanese "mama-san") female manager of a hostess club, brothel or similar establishment; madam
妈惹法克	ma	ke	motherfucker (loanword)
妈拉个巴子	ma	zi	fuck!; motherfucker!; fucking
妈的法克	ma	ke	motherfucker (loanword)
妊娠纹	ren	wen	stretch marks (due to pregnancy)
妊娠试验	ren	yan	pregnancy test
妒能害贤	du	xian	jealous of the able, envious of the clever (idiom)
妒贤嫉能	du	neng	see 嫉賢妒能|嫉贤妒能[ji2 xian2 du4 neng2]
妖术师	yao	shi	warlock; sorcerer
妖蛾子	yao	zi	variant of 么蛾子|幺蛾子[yao1 e2 zi5]
妖言惑众	yao	zhong	to mislead the public with rumors (idiom); to delude the people with lies
妖魔化	yao	hua	to demonize
妖魔鬼怪	yao	guai	(idiom) all kinds of evil spirits or malevolent beings
妙不可言	miao	yan	too wonderful for words
妙在不言中	miao	zhong	the charm lies in what is left unsaid (idiom)
妙妙熊历险记	miao	ji	Adventures of the Gummi Bears (Disney animated series)
妙手回春	miao	chun	(idiom) (of a doctor) to effect a miracle cure
妙手空空	miao	kong	petty thief (lit. quick fingered and vanish); empty-handed; having nothing
妙探寻凶	miao	xiong	Cluedo (board game)
妙智慧	miao	hui	wondrous wisdom and knowledge (Buddhism)
妙法莲华经	miao	jing	The Lotus Sutra
妙笔生花	miao	hua	gifted or skillful writing
妙语如珠	miao	zhu	sparkling with wit (idiom)
妙语横生	miao	sheng	to be full of wit and humor
妙语连珠	miao	zhu	sparkling with wit (idiom)
妙趣横生	miao	sheng	endlessly interesting (idiom); very witty
妥妥的	tuo	de	(neologism c. 2009) don't worry, it's all taken care of
妥瑞症	tuo	zheng	Tourette syndrome
妨功害能	fang	neng	to constrain and limit successful, capable people
妨害公务	fang	wu	(law) obstructing government administration
妨碍球	fang	qiu	(golf) stymie
妮维娅	ni	ya	Nivea, skin and body care brand
妮维雅	ni	ya	Nivea, skin and body care brand
妹妹头	mei	tou	bob (hairstyle)
妻妾成群	qi	qun	to have many wives and concubines; to have a harem
妻离子散	qi	san	a family wrenched apart (idiom)
妻管严	qi	yan	henpecked male
姆佬族	mu	zu	Mulao ethnic group of Guangxi
姆巴巴内	mu	nei	Mbabane, administrative capital of Eswatini
姆拉迪奇	mu	qi	Mladić (name); Ratko Mladić (1942-), army chief of Bosnian Serbs 1965-1996 and convicted war criminal
始业式	shi	shi	school opening ceremony (to mark the start of a semester) (Tw)
始作俑者	shi	zhe	(lit.) the first person to make funerary figurines (idiom); (fig.) the originator of an evil practice
始兴县	shi	xian	Shixing, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
始料未及	shi	ji	not expected at the outset (idiom); unforeseen; to be surprised by the turn of events
始新世	shi	shi	Eocene (geological epoch from 55m-34m years ago)
始新纪	shi	ji	Eocene (geological epoch from 55m-34m years ago)
始新统	shi	tong	Eocene system (geology)
始祖鸟	shi	niao	archaeopteryx
始终不渝	shi	yu	unswerving; unflinching
始终如一	shi	yi	unswerving from start to finish (idiom)
姐们儿	jie	r	erhua form of 姐們|姐们[jie3 men5]
姐妹花	jie	hua	beautiful sisters
姐弟恋	jie	lian	love between an older woman and a younger man
姑奶奶	gu	nai	paternal great-aunt (father's father's sister); (respectful form of address for a married woman used by members of her parents' family) married daughter; (brassy self-reference used by a woman in an altercation) I; me; this lady here
姑妄言之	gu	zhi	to just talk for the sake of talking
姑姥姥	gu	lao	mother's father's sister (coll.); great aunt
姑婆芋	gu	yu	night-scented lily (Alocasia odora)
姑息养奸	gu	jian	to tolerate is to nurture an evildoer (idiom); spare the rod and spoil the child
姑息遗患	gu	huan	to tolerate is to abet
姑置勿论	gu	lun	(idiom) to put (an issue) to one side for the moment
姑苏区	gu	qu	Gusu, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
姒文命	si	ming	Si Wenming, personal name of Yu the Great 大禹[Da4 Yu3]
姓蒋还是姓汪	xing	wang	friend or foe? (quote from 沙家浜[Sha1 jia1 bang1]) (蔣|蒋[Jiang3] here refers to Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2] and 汪[Wang1] refers to Wang Jingwei 汪精衛|汪精卫[Wang1 Jing1 wei4])
委以重任	wei	ren	(literary) to entrust (sb) with an important task
委任书	wei	shu	letter of appointment
委任统治	wei	zhi	mandate (territory administration)
委内瑞拉	wei	la	Venezuela
委内瑞拉马脑炎病毒	wei	du	Venezuelan equine encephalitis (VEE) virus
委员会	wei	hui	committee; commission
委员长	wei	zhang	head of a committee
委委屈屈	wei	qu	to feel aggrieved
委婉词	wei	ci	euphemism
委婉语	wei	yu	euphemism
委托书	wei	shu	commission; proxy; power of attorney
委托人	wei	ren	(law) client; trustor
委曲求全	wei	quan	to accept a compromise
委靡不振	wei	zhen	variant of 萎靡不振[wei3 mi3 bu4 zhen4]
姗姗来迟	shan	chi	to be late; to arrive slowly; to be slow in the coming
姚安县	yao	xian	Yao'an, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
姚思廉	yao	lian	Yao Silian (557-637), Tang writer and compiler of 梁書|梁书[Liang2 shu1] and 陳書|陈书[Chen2 shu1]
姚文元	yao	yuan	Yao Wenyuan (1931-2005), one of the Gang of Four
姚雪垠	yao	yin	Yao Xueyin (1910-1999), PRC novelist, author of historical novel Li Zicheng 李自成
姜堰区	jiang	qu	Jiangyan, a district of Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
姜太公	jiang	gong	see Jiang Ziya 姜子牙[Jiang1 Zi3 ya2]
姜太公钓鱼愿者上钩	jiang	gou	Jiang Ziya is fishing, if you want it, take the hook (idiom, refers to early sage 姜子牙 fishing with no bait and the hook above the water); to put one's head in the noose
姜子牙	jiang	ya	Jiang Ziya (c. 1100 BC, dates of birth and death unknown), partly mythical sage advisor to King Wen of Zhou 周文王[Zhou1 Wen2 wang2] and purported author of “Six Secret Strategic Teachings” 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1], one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1]
姜是老的辣	jiang	la	see 薑還是老的辣|姜还是老的辣[jiang1 hai2 shi4 lao3 de5 la4]
姜石年	jiang	nian	Jiang Shinian (c. 2000 BC), birth name of Shennong 神農|神农[Sheng2 nong2] Farmer God, first of the legendary Flame Emperors 炎帝[Yan2 di4] and creator of agriculture in China
姜还是老的辣	jiang	la	ginger gets spicier as it gets older (idiom); the older, the wiser
姜黄色	jiang	se	ginger (color)
姨太太	yi	tai	concubine
姨奶奶	yi	nai	father's mother's sister (coll.); great aunt
姨妈巾	yi	jin	(coll.) sanitary towel
姨姥姥	yi	lao	mother's mother's sister; great-aunt
姨母笑	yi	xiao	(neologism c. 2017) (slang) kindly, indulgent smile (usu. on the face of a woman)
姬松茸	ji	rong	himematsutake mushroom (Agaricus subrufescens or Agaricus blazei Murill)
姬滨鹬	ji	yu	(bird species of China) least sandpiper (Calidris minutilla)
姬田鸡	ji	ji	(bird species of China) little crake (Zapornia parva)
姬路城	ji	cheng	Himeji Castle in Hyogo prefecture, Japan
姹紫嫣红	cha	hong	lit. beautiful purples and brilliant reds (idiom); fig. beautiful flowers
威信县	wei	xian	Weixin, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
威信扫地	wei	di	to lose every scrap of reputation
威克岛	wei	dao	Wake Island (North Pacific Ocean)
威凤一羽	wei	yu	lit. one phoenix feather; fig. a glimpse that reveals the whole
威利斯	wei	si	Willis (name)
威化饼干	wei	gan	(loanword) wafer (cookie)
威基基	wei	ji	Waikiki (Hawaii)
威士忌	wei	ji	whiskey (loanword)
威士忌酒	wei	jiu	whiskey (loanword)
威奇托	wei	tuo	Wichita (city in Kansas)
威妥玛	wei	ma	Sir Thomas Francis Wade (1818-1895), British diplomat and sinologist, originator of the Wade-Giles Chinese romanization system
威妥玛拼法	wei	fa	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威妥玛拼音	wei	yin	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威宁县	wei	xian	see 威寧彝族回族苗族自治縣|威宁彝族回族苗族自治县[Wei1 ning2 Yi2 zu2 Hui2 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
威尊命贱	wei	jian	(idiom) the dignity of authority is above life; one must be willing to sacrifice one's life rather than disobey a military order
威尔士	wei	shi	Wales, constituent nation of UK
威尔士语	wei	yu	Welsh (language)
威尔特郡	wei	jun	Wiltshire (English county)
威尔逊	wei	xun	Wilson (name)
威尼斯	wei	si	Venice; Venezia
威尼斯商人	wei	ren	The Merchant of Venice by William Shakespeare
威廉斯堡	wei	bao	Williamsburg, Virginia
威慑力量	wei	liang	deterrent force; deterrent
威斯康星	wei	xing	Wisconsin, US state
威斯康辛	wei	xin	Wisconsin
威斯敏斯特教堂	wei	tang	Westminster Abbey, London
威末酒	wei	jiu	vermouth (loanword)
威武不屈	wei	qu	not to submit to force
威氏注音法	wei	fa	Wade-Giles transliteration scheme for Chinese
威海卫	wei	wei	Weihaiwei, late Qing naval port in Weihai 威海, Shandong
威海市	wei	shi	Weihai, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
威灵顿	wei	dun	Wellington, capital of New Zealand (Tw); Wellington (name); Arthur Wellesley, Duke of Wellington (1769-1851)
威玛共和国	wei	guo	Weimar Republic (German Reich, 1919-1933)
威玛拼法	wei	fa	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威玛拼音	wei	yin	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
威福自己	wei	ji	to exercise power arbitrarily (idiom)
威而钢	wei	gang	Viagra (male impotence drug) (Tw)
威远县	wei	xian	Weiyuan, a county in Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
威逼利诱	wei	you	to make threats and promises
威震天下	wei	xia	to inspire awe throughout the empire (idiom)
威风凛凛	wei	lin	majestic; awe-inspiring presence; impressive power
娃娃亲	wa	qin	arranged betrothal of minors
娃娃兵	wa	bing	child soldier
娃娃生	wa	sheng	infant's part in opera, usually played by child actor
娃娃脸	wa	lian	baby face; doll face
娃娃菜	wa	cai	baby Chinese cabbage (mini-sized variety)
娃娃装	wa	zhuang	baby-doll dress
娃娃车	wa	che	kindergarten bus; baby carriage; stroller
娃娃音	wa	yin	childlike voice; babyish voice
娃娃鱼	wa	yu	Chinese giant salamander (Andrias davidianus)
娄底市	lou	shi	Loudi, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
娄星区	lou	qu	Louxing, a district of Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
娄烦县	lou	xian	Loufan, a county in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
娇娇女	jiao	nv	pampered girl from an affluent family
娇滴滴	jiao	di	sweet; cute; delicately pretty
娇生惯养	jiao	yang	pampered and spoiled since childhood
娈童恋	luan	lian	pederasty
娉婷袅娜	ping	nuo	(idiom) (of a woman) gorgeous and graceful; lithe and lovely
娓娓动听	wei	ting	(idiom) to speak in a pleasant and captivating manner
娓娓而谈	wei	tan	(idiom) to speak engagingly
娘儿们	niang	men	(dialect) woman; wife
娘娘庙	niang	miao	temple of Goddess of Fertility
娘娘腔	niang	qiang	sissy; effeminate
娘家姓	niang	xing	maiden name (of married woman)
娘希匹	niang	pi	(dialect) fuck!
娜塔莉	na	li	Natalie (name)
娱乐中心	yu	xin	amusement park; recreation center; entertainment center
娱乐圈	yu	quan	the entertainment world; show business
娱乐场	yu	chang	place of entertainment; casino; resort
娱乐场所	yu	suo	place of entertainment
娱乐界	yu	jie	the entertainment world; show business
娶媳妇	qu	fu	to get oneself a wife; to take a daughter-in-law
婆婆妈妈	po	ma	effeminate; old-womanish; garrulous
婆罗洲	po	zhou	Borneo island (of Indonesia, Malaysia and Brunei)
婆罗浮屠	po	tu	Borobudur (in Java, Indonesia)
婆罗门	po	men	Brahmin
婆罗门教	po	jiao	Brahmanism; Hinduism
婚介所	hun	suo	matchmaking agency; dating service (abbr. for 婚姻介紹所|婚姻介绍所[hun1 yin1 jie4 shao4 suo3])
婚前性行为	hun	wei	premarital sex
婚前财产公证	hun	zheng	prenuptial agreement; dowry contract
婚外恋	hun	lian	see 婚外情[hun1 wai4 qing2]
婚外情	hun	qing	extramarital affair
婚姻介绍所	hun	suo	marriage agency
婚姻法	hun	fa	marriage law
婚姻调解	hun	jie	marriage counseling
婚神星	hun	xing	Juno, an asteroid
婚纱摄影	hun	ying	wedding photos (done in studio, kit and caboodle taken care of by the studio)
婴儿床	ying	chuang	crib; baby's bed
婴儿手推车	ying	che	baby buggy
婴儿期	ying	qi	infancy
婴儿潮	ying	chao	baby boom
婴儿猝死综合症	ying	zheng	sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS); crib death
婴儿车	ying	che	baby carriage; pram; stroller
婴幼儿	ying	er	baby
婷婷玉立	ting	li	variant of 亭亭玉立[ting2 ting2 yu4 li4]
婺城区	wu	qu	Wucheng, a district of Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
婺源县	wu	xian	Wuyuan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
媒人婆	mei	po	female matchmaker
媒体自由	mei	you	freedom of the media
媒体访问控制	mei	zhi	Media Access Control; MAC
媒妁之言	mei	yan	(idiom) matchmaker's services (in establishing an arranged marriage)
媳妇儿	xi	r	erhua form of 媳婦|媳妇[xi2 fu4]
媳妇熬成婆	xi	po	lit. even a submissive daughter-in-law will one day become a domineering mother-in-law (idiom); fig. the oppressed will become the oppressor; what goes around comes around
嫁祸于人	jia	ren	to pass the misfortune on to sb else (idiom); to blame others; to pass the buck
嫁鸡随鸡	jia	ji	If you marry a chicken, follow the chicken (idiom); A woman should follow whatever her husband orders.; We must learn to accept the people around us.
嫁鸡随鸡嫁狗随狗	jia	gou	if you marry a chicken follow the chicken, if you marry a dog follow the dog (idiom)
嫉恶如仇	ji	chou	(idiom) to hate evil as one hates an enemy
嫉贤妒能	ji	neng	(idiom) to envy the virtuous and talented
嫌疑人	xian	ren	a suspect
嫌疑犯	xian	fan	a suspect
嫌贫爱富	xian	fu	to favor the rich and disdain the poor (idiom); snobbish
嫣然一笑	yan	xiao	(idiom) to smile sweetly
嫩江市	nen	shi	Nenjiang, a county-level city in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
嫩肉粉	nen	fen	meat tenderizer powder
嬉皮士	xi	shi	hippie (loanword)
嬉皮笑脸	xi	lian	all smiles; smiling mischievously or ingratiatingly
嬉笑怒骂	xi	ma	lit. laughs, jeers, anger and invective (idiom); fig. all kinds of emotions; to mock and scold
子丑寅卯	zi	mao	(idiom) a full and coherent account of a matter; the complete facts of the case; the whole story
子供向	zi	xiang	(of a game, movie etc) intended for children (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 子供向け "kodomo-muke")
子公司	zi	si	subsidiary company; subsidiary corporation
子午线	zi	xian	meridian
子品牌	zi	pai	sub-brand
子囊菌	zi	jun	ascomycete
子子孙孙	zi	sun	(idiom) one's posterity
子孙娘娘	zi	niang	goddess of fertility
子孝父慈	zi	ci	see 父慈子孝[fu4 ci2 zi3 xiao4]
子宫内膜异位症	zi	zheng	(medicine) endometriosis
子宫内避孕器	zi	qi	intrauterine device (IUD)
子宫壁	zi	bi	wall of the uterus
子宫托	zi	tuo	pessary
子宫环	zi	huan	intrauterine device (IUD)
子宫肌瘤	zi	liu	fibroid tumor of the uterus; hysteromyoma
子宫颈	zi	jing	cervix; the neck of the uterus
子宫颈抹片	zi	pian	cervical smear (Tw)
子宫颈癌	zi	ai	cervical cancer
子宫颈管	zi	guan	(anatomy) cervical canal
子承父业	zi	ye	(idiom) (of a son) to carry on one's father's business or profession
子模型	zi	xing	submodel
子母弹	zi	dan	(military) cluster bomb; shrapnel
子母扣	zi	kou	snap fastener
子母炮弹	zi	dan	artillery cluster bomb
子母炸弹	zi	dan	cluster bomb
子洲县	zi	xian	Zizhou, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
子癫前症	zi	zheng	pre-eclampsia, toxaemia of pregnancy (medicine)
子目录	zi	lu	(computing) subdirectory
子程序	zi	xu	subroutine
子空间	zi	jian	(math.) subspace
子系统	zi	tong	subsystem
子细胞	zi	bao	daughter cell
子网屏蔽码	zi	ma	subnet mask (computing)
子菜单	zi	dan	(computing) submenu
子虚乌有	zi	you	(idiom) to have no basis in fact; to be the product of sb's imagination
子长市	zi	shi	Zichang, a county-level city in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
子集合	zi	he	(math.) subset
孑孑为义	jie	yi	petty favors
孑然一身	jie	shen	to be all alone in the world
孑立无依	jie	yi	to stand alone; to have no one to rely on
孑遗生物	jie	wu	living fossil
孔丛子	kong	zi	the K'ung family Masters' anthology, collection of dialogues between Confucius and his disciples, possibly forged in third century by Wang Su 王肅|王肃[Wang2 Su4]
孔乙己	kong	ji	Kong Yiji, protagonist of a short story of the same name by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4] depicting the life of a poor, unsuccessful scholar who clings to his Confucian ideals despite his dismal circumstances
孔圣人	kong	ren	the Sage Confucius
孔夫子	kong	zi	Confucius (551-479 BC), Chinese thinker and social philosopher, also known as 孔子[Kong3 zi3]
孔子学院	kong	yuan	Confucius Institute, organization established internationally by the PRC, promoting Chinese language and culture
孔子家语	kong	yu	The School Sayings of Confucius, a supplement to the Analects; abbr. to 家語|家语[Jia1 yu3]
孔孟之道	kong	dao	the teaching of Confucius and Mencius
孔尚任	kong	ren	Kong Shangren (1648-1718), Qing dramatist and poet, author of The Peach Blossom Fan 桃花扇[Tao2 hua1 Shan4]
孔斯贝格	kong	ge	Kongsberg (city in Norway)
孔方兄	kong	xiong	(coll., humorous) money (so named because in former times, Chinese coins had a square hole in the middle)
孔明灯	kong	deng	sky lantern (miniature hot-air balloon used during festivals)
孔武有力	kong	li	courageous and strong (idiom); Herculean (physique etc)
孔版印刷	kong	shua	screen printing
孔融让梨	kong	li	Kong Rong giving up pears, classic moral story about Kong Rong 孔融[Kong3 Rong2] picking up smaller pears while leaving the bigger ones to his older brothers, still used nowadays to educate the young on courtesy and modesty
孔雀女	kong	nv	(Internet slang) spoiled city girl from a rich family
孔雀座	kong	zuo	Pavo (constellation)
孔雀河	kong	he	Peacock River in Xinjiang
孔雀王朝	kong	chao	Maurya Dynasty of India (322-185 BC)
孔颖达	kong	da	Kong Yingda (574-648), Confucian scholar
孕妇装	yun	zhuang	maternity wear
孕婴童	yun	tong	(market segment) maternity and early childhood
孕宝宝	yun	bao	(coll.) child in the womb
孕激素	yun	su	progesterone
字元集	zi	ji	character set
字字珠玉	zi	yu	every word a gem (idiom); magnificent writing
字字珠玑	zi	ji	(idiom) every word is a gem
字帖儿	zi	r	piece of paper with short note; short letter
字斟句酌	zi	zhuo	weighing every word
字根表	zi	biao	table of components used in wubi input method 五筆輸入法|五笔输入法[wu3 bi3 shu1 ru4 fa3]
字根通用码	zi	ma	common coding for components of Chinese character; same as Zheng coding 鄭碼|郑码[Zheng4 ma3]
字正腔圆	zi	yuan	to enunciate beautifully (in speaking or singing) (idiom)
字母表	zi	biao	alphabet
字母词	zi	ci	word that contains one or more letters of an alphabet (e.g. HSK, PK, WTO, PO文, PM2.5, γ射線|γ射线[γ she4 xian4])
字母顺序	zi	xu	alphabetical order
字符串	zi	chuan	string (computing)
字符集	zi	ji	character set (e.g. ASCII 美國資訊交換標準碼|美国资讯交换标准码 or Unicode 統一碼|统一码)
字纸篓	zi	lou	wastepaper basket
字纸篓子	zi	zi	see 字紙簍|字纸篓[zi4 zhi3 lou3]
字节数	zi	shu	byte count
字节跳动	zi	dong	ByteDance, Beijing-based Internet technology company founded in 2012
字里行间	zi	jian	between the words and the lines (idiom); implied meaning; connotations
存亡攸关	cun	guan	a make-or-break matter; a matter of life and death
存储卡	cun	ka	memory card
存储器	cun	qi	memory (computing)
存在主义	cun	yi	existentialism
存在感	cun	gan	sense of presence; sense of existence
存异求同	cun	tong	see 求同存異|求同存异[qiu2 tong2 cun2 yi4]
存托凭证	cun	zheng	depository share; depository receipt (DR)
存款人	cun	ren	depositor
存款准备金	cun	jin	reserve requirement (finance)
存款准备金率	cun	lv	deposit-reserve ratio
存款单	cun	dan	certificate of deposit
存款证	cun	zheng	certificate of deposit
存水弯	cun	wan	trap (plumbing); U-bend
存活率	cun	lv	(med.) survival rate; (med.) recovery rate
存贷款	cun	kuan	savings deposits and loans
存车场	cun	chang	bike park
存车处	cun	chu	parking lot (for bicycles)
存钱罐	cun	guan	piggy bank; coin bank; money box
孙中山	sun	shan	Dr Sun Yat-sen (1866-1925), first president of the Republic of China and co-founder of the Guomintang 國民黨|国民党; same as 孫逸仙|孙逸仙
孙传芳	sun	fang	Sun Chuanfang (1885-1935) one of the northern warlord, murdered in Tianjin in 1935
孙吴县	sun	xian	Sunwu, a county in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
孙大圣	sun	sheng	Great-Sage Sun; Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1]
孙女儿	sun	r	granddaughter (son's daughter)
孙女婿	sun	xu	son's daughter's husband; granddaughter's husband
孙媳妇	sun	fu	son's son's wife; grandson's wife
孙子兵法	sun	fa	“Art of War”, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], written by Sun Tzu 孫子|孙子[Sun1 zi3]
孙子定理	sun	li	the Chinese remainder theorem
孙思邈	sun	miao	Sun Simiao (c. 581-682), doctor and herbalist of the Sui and Tang dynasty, author of Prescriptions Worth a Thousand in Gold 千金要方[Qian1 jin1 Yao4 fang1]
孙悟空	sun	kong	Sun Wukong, the Monkey King, character with supernatural powers in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]; Son Goku, the main character in Dragon Ball 七龍珠|七龙珠[Qi1 long2 zhu1]
孙武子	sun	zi	Sun Wu, famous general, strategist and Legalist philosopher, contemporary with Confucius 孔子[Kong3 zi3] (551-479 BC), author of "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3], also known as Sun Tzu 孫子|孙子[Sun1 zi3]
孙毓棠	sun	tang	Sun Yutang (1911-1985), historian and poet, studied in Tokyo, Oxford and Harvard
孙燕姿	sun	zi	Stefanie Sun (1978-), Singaporean singer-songwriter
孙继海	sun	hai	Sun Jihai (1977-), Chinese footballer, played for Manchester City (2002-2008)
孙膑兵法	sun	fa	Sun Bin's "The Art of War"
孙行者	sun	zhe	Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1], the Monkey King, character with supernatural powers in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
孙逸仙	sun	xian	Dr Sun Yat-sen (1866-1925), first president of the Republic of China and co-founder of the Kuomintang; same as 孫中山|孙中山
孜孜不倦	zi	juan	lit. diligent and never slacking (idiom); continuous concentrated effort; assiduous (in study); to concentrate
孜孜以求	zi	qiu	diligent and tireless (idiom)
孜孜矻矻	zi	ku	diligently
孜然芹	zi	qin	cumin
孝义市	xiao	shi	Xiaoyi, a county-level city in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
孝南区	xiao	qu	Xiaonan, a district of Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
孝圣宪	xiao	xian	Empress Xiaoshengxian (1693-1777), consort of Emperor Yongzheng 雍正[Yong1 zheng4] and mother of Emperor Qianlong 乾隆[Qian2 long2]
孝思不匮	xiao	kui	to be forever filial (idiom)
孝悌忠信	xiao	xin	Confucian moral injunctions of fidelity; piety to one's parents, respect to one's older brother, loyalty to one's monarch, faith to one's male friends
孝感市	xiao	shi	Xiaogan, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
孝成王	xiao	wang	King Xiaocheng of Zhao 趙國|赵国, reigned 266-245 BC
孝昌县	xiao	xian	Xiaochang, a county in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
孟加拉	meng	la	Bengal; Bangladesh
孟加拉人民共和国	meng	guo	People's Republic of Bangladesh (formerly East Pakistan)
孟加拉国	meng	guo	Bangladesh
孟加拉湾	meng	wan	Bay of Bengal
孟加拉语	meng	yu	Bengali (language)
孟姜女	meng	nv	heroine of Qin dynasty 秦朝 folk tale, who searched for her husband, and whose tears broke down a stretch of the Great Wall to reveal his body
孟婆汤	meng	tang	potion given to souls by the goddess Meng Po 孟婆[Meng4 po2] before they are reincarnated that makes them forget their previous existence
孟宗竹	meng	zhu	see 毛竹[mao2 zhu2]
孟尝君	meng	jun	Lord Menchang of Qi, Chancellor of Qi and of Wei during the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
孟州市	meng	shi	Mengzhou, a county-level city in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
孟德斯鸠	meng	jiu	Charles Montesquieu (1689-1755), French political philosopher
孟思诚	meng	cheng	Maeng Saseong (1360-1438), Korean politician of the Goryeo-Joseon transition, famous for his honesty and wisdom
孟村县	meng	xian	see 孟村回族自治縣|孟村回族自治县[Meng4 cun1 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
孟村回族自治县	meng	xian	Mengcun Hui Autonomous County, in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
孟津区	meng	qu	Mengjin, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
孟浩然	meng	ran	Meng Haoran (689-740), Tang Dynasty Poet
孟良崮	meng	gu	Mt Mengliang in Mengyin county 蒙陰縣|蒙阴县[Meng2 yin1 xian4], Linyi 臨沂|临沂[Lin2 yi2], Shandong
孟良崮战役	meng	yi	Battle of Mt Mengliang in Shandong of 1947 between the Nationalists and Communists
孟菲斯	meng	si	Memphis (Egypt or Tennessee)
孟连县	meng	xian	see 孟連傣族拉祜族佤族自治縣|孟连傣族拉祜族佤族自治县[Meng4 lian2 Dai3 zu2 La1 hu4 zu2 Wa3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
季后赛	ji	sai	a playoff
季羡林	ji	lin	Ji Xianlin (1911-2009), Chinese linguist and Indologist
季肋区	ji	qu	(anatomy) hypochondriac region
季节性	ji	xing	seasonal
季莫申科	ji	ke	Tymoshenko (name); Yulia Tymoshenko (1960-), Ukrainian politician
季雨林	ji	lin	monsoon forest
季黎诺	ji	nuo	Quirinius, governor of Syria (c. 51 BC - AD 21)
孤儿药	gu	yao	orphan drug
孤儿院	gu	yuan	orphanage; child asylum
孤军奋战	gu	zhan	lit. lone army putting up a brave fight (idiom); fig. (of a person or group of people) struggling hard without support
孤哀子	gu	zi	(literary) orphan
孤孑特立	gu	li	to be all alone in the world
孤家寡人	gu	ren	one who is cut off from others (idiom); one who has chosen to follow a solitary path; (can also be an indirect way of referring to an unmarried person)
孤掌难鸣	gu	ming	It's hard to clap with only one hand.; It takes two to tango; It's difficult to achieve anything without support.
孤沙锥	gu	zhui	(bird species of China) solitary snipe (Gallinago solitaria)
孤注一掷	gu	zhi	to stake all on one throw
孤独于世	gu	shi	alone in the world (idiom)
孤独症	gu	zheng	autism
孤男寡女	gu	nv	a single man and a single woman; bachelors; a man and a woman together (typically in a secluded setting)
孤立子	gu	zi	soliton (physics)
孤立子波	gu	bo	instanton (math.)
孤立无援	gu	yuan	isolated and without help
孤胆英雄	gu	xiong	solitary hero; maverick
孤芳自赏	gu	shang	lone flower admiring itself (idiom); narcissism; self-love
孤苦伶仃	gu	ding	solitary and impoverished (idiom)
孤苦零丁	gu	ding	variant of 孤苦伶仃[gu1 ku3 ling2 ding1]
孤证不立	gu	li	unacceptable as uncorroborated evidence (in law or in textual criticism)
孤身只影	gu	ying	lit. a lonely body with only a shadow for company; to be all alone (idiom)
孤陋寡闻	gu	wen	ignorant and inexperienced; ill-informed and narrow-minded
孤雌生殖	gu	zhi	parthenogenesis (biol. a female reproducing without fertilization)
孤零零	gu	ling	lone; isolated and without help; all alone
孤魂野鬼	gu	gui	wandering ghosts without living descendants to pray for them (idiom); person who has no family or friends to rely on
孤鸾年	gu	nian	inauspicious year for marriage
学业有成	xue	cheng	to be successful in one's studies; academic success
学习强国	xue	guo	Xuexi Qiangguo, PRC app designed to teach Xi Jinping Thought, released in 2019
学习时报	xue	bao	Study Times, journal of the Central Party School 中央黨校|中央党校[Zhong1 yang1 Dang3 xiao4]
学以致用	xue	yong	(idiom) to study sth in order to apply it
学会院士	xue	shi	academician; fellow of academy
学位论文	xue	wen	dissertation; thesis
学位证书	xue	shu	diploma (for a degree); degree certificate
学分制	xue	zhi	credit system; grading system (in schools, universities etc)
学分小时	xue	shi	credit hour (in an academic credit system); see also 學分制|学分制[xue2 fen1 zhi4]
学前教育	xue	yu	preschool education; early childhood education
学前班	xue	ban	preschool
学区房	xue	fang	a residential property located within the designated catchment area of a desirable school, often sought after by parents to secure school admission for their children
学名药	xue	yao	generic drug; generic medicine
学士学位	xue	wei	bachelor's degree
学富五车	xue	che	of great erudition and scholarship (idiom)
学无止境	xue	jing	no end to learning (idiom); There's always something new to study.; You live and learn.
学术圈	xue	quan	academic circles; academia
学术水平	xue	ping	academic level
学术界	xue	jie	academic circles; academia
学术自由	xue	you	academic freedom
学步车	xue	che	baby walker; baby walking frame
学海无涯	xue	ya	sea of learning, no horizon (idiom); no limits to what one still has to learn; ars longa, vita brevis
学海泛舟	xue	zhou	sailing on the sea of learning (idiom)
学然后知不足	xue	zu	to learn is to know one's ignorance (the Book of Rites 禮記|礼记[Li3 ji4])
学生会	xue	hui	student union
学生证	xue	zheng	student identity card
学生运动	xue	dong	student movement
学而不厌	xue	yan	study tirelessly (idiom, from Analects)
学而不厌诲人不倦	xue	juan	study tirelessly, teach with endless enthusiasm (idiom, from Analects)
学而优则仕	xue	shi	one who is successful in one's studies, can become an official (idiom)
学院派	xue	pai	academism (art)
孩子们	hai	men	children
孩子气	hai	qi	boyish; childish; childishness
孪生兄弟	luan	di	twin brothers
孪生姐妹	luan	mei	twin sisters
孰优孰劣	shu	lie	which of the two is better?
孰真孰假	shu	jia	what is true and what is fake
孵化器	fu	qi	incubator (for eggs or startup businesses)
孵化场	fu	chang	incubator; hatchery (for poultry etc)
孵化期	fu	qi	incubation period; time for sth to develop
孺子可教	ru	jiao	(idiom) this young person is worth teaching (used to praise sb as promising or capable of being taught)
孽海花	nie	hua	A Flower in a Sinful Sea, late-Qing novel by Jin Tianhe 金天翮[Jin1 Tian1 he2] and Zeng Pu 曾樸|曾朴[Zeng1 Pu3]
宁为玉碎不为瓦全	ning	quan	Better broken jade than intact tile.; Death is preferable to dishonor. (idiom)
宁为鸡头不为凤尾	ning	wei	see 寧做雞頭，不做鳳尾|宁做鸡头，不做凤尾[ning4 zuo4 ji1 tou2 , bu4 zuo4 feng4 wei3]
宁乡市	ning	shi	Ningxiang, a county-level city in Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
宁做鸡头不做凤尾	ning	wei	lit. would rather be a chicken's head than a phoenix's tail (idiom); fig. to prefer to be a big fish in a small pond rather than a small fish in a big pond
宁化县	ning	xian	Ninghua, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
宁南县	ning	xian	Ningnan, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
宁国市	ning	shi	Ningguo, a county-level city in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
宁城县	ning	xian	Ningcheng, a county in Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
宁夏回族自治区	ning	qu	Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region, capital Yinchuan 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4] (short name 寧|宁[Ning2])
宁夏省	ning	sheng	former Ningxia province, now Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
宁安市	ning	shi	Ning'an, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
宁左勿右	ning	you	(of one's political views) to prefer left rather than right (idiom during the Cultural Revolution)
宁强县	ning	xian	Ningqiang, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
宁德市	ning	shi	Ningde, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
宁明县	ning	xian	Ningming, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
宁晋县	ning	xian	Ningjin, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
宁武县	ning	xian	Ningwu, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
宁死不屈	ning	qu	rather die than submit (idiom)
宁江区	ning	qu	Ningjiang, a district of Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
宁波市	ning	shi	Ningbo, sub-provincial city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
宁津县	ning	xian	Ningjin, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
宁洱县	ning	xian	see 寧洱哈尼族彝族自治縣|宁洱哈尼族彝族自治县[Ning2 er3 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
宁海县	ning	xian	Ninghai, a county in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
宁缺勿滥	ning	lan	same as 寧缺毋濫|宁缺毋滥[ning4 que1 wu2 lan4]
宁缺毋滥	ning	lan	better to have nothing (than substandard choice) (idiom); would prefer to go without than accept shoddy option
宁蒗县	ning	xian	see 寧蒗彝族自治縣|宁蒗彝族自治县[Ning2 lang4 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
宁蒗彝族自治县	ning	xian	Ninglang Yi Autonomous County, in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
宁远县	ning	xian	Ningyuan, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
宁都县	ning	xian	Ningdu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
宁阳县	ning	xian	Ningyang, a county in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
宁陕县	ning	xian	Ningshan, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
宁陵县	ning	xian	Ningling, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
宁静致远	ning	yuan	tranquility yields transcendence (idiom); quiet life of profound study; cf Still waters run deep.
它本身	ta	shen	itself
宅度假	zhai	jia	staycation; residential vacation
宇宙号	yu	hao	Kosmos, series of earth-orbit satellites operated by the Soviet Union and subsequently Russia
宇宙学	yu	xue	cosmology
宇宙射线	yu	xian	cosmic ray
宇宙线	yu	xian	cosmic ray
宇宙观	yu	guan	world view; conception of the universe
宇宙速度	yu	du	escape velocity
宇宙飞船	yu	chuan	spaceship; spacecraft
宇普西龙	yu	long	upsilon (Greek letter Υυ)
宇航员	yu	yuan	astronaut
宇航局	yu	ju	space agency
宇航服	yu	fu	spacesuit
守一而终	shou	zhong	to be faithful to one's mate all one's life
守信用	shou	yong	to keep one's word; trustworthy
守卫者	shou	zhe	defender; a guard
守口如瓶	shou	ping	lit. to guard one's mouth like a closed bottle (idiom); tight-lipped; reticent; not breathing a word
守土有责	shou	ze	duty to defend the country (idiom)
守恒定律	shou	lv	conservation law (physics)
守护神	shou	shen	protector God; patron saint
守旧派	shou	pai	person who sticks to old ways; traditionalist; a conservative
守望台	shou	tai	watchtower
守望相助	shou	zhu	to keep watch and defend one another (idiom, from Mencius); to join forces to defend against external aggressors; mutual help and protection
守株待兔	shou	tu	lit. to guard a tree-stump, waiting for rabbits (idiom); to wait idly for opportunities; to trust to chance rather than show initiative
守株待兔缘木求鱼	shou	yu	to guard a tree-stump, waiting for rabbits, and climb a tree to catch fish (idiom); without any practical course of action
守株缘木	shou	mu	abbr. for 守株待兔，緣木求魚|守株待兔，缘木求鱼[shou3 zhu1 dai4 tu4 , yuan2 mu4 qiu2 yu2]
守正不阿	shou	e	to be strictly just and impartial
守活寡	shou	gua	to stay at home while one's husband is away; grass widow
守空房	shou	fang	to stay home alone (of married woman)
守规矩	shou	ju	to behave oneself; to abide by the rules
守财奴	shou	nu	miser; scrooge
守身如玉	shou	yu	to keep oneself pure; to preserve one's integrity; to remain chaste
守门人	shou	ren	gatekeeper
守门员	shou	yuan	goalkeeper
安丘市	an	shi	Anqiu, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
安东尼	an	ni	Anthony (name)
安乃近	an	jin	analgin (loanword)
安义县	an	xian	Anyi, a county in Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安之若素	an	su	bear hardship with equanimity; regard wrongdoing with equanimity
安乐区	an	qu	Anle, a district of Keelung 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
安乐椅	an	yi	comfortable armchair; easy chair; rocking chair
安乐死	an	si	euthanasia
安乐窝	an	wo	comfortable niche
安乡县	an	xian	Anxiang, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
安于现状	an	zhuang	to take things as they are (idiom); to leave a situation as it is; to be happy with the status quo
安亲班	an	ban	(Tw) after-school program
安仁县	an	xian	Anren, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
安倍晋三	an	san	Abe Shinzo (1954-2022), Japanese LDP politician, prime minister 2006-2007 and from 2012-2020
安克拉治	an	zhi	Anchorage (Alaska)
安克雷奇	an	qi	Anchorage (city in Alaska)
安全壳	an	ke	containment vessel
安全套	an	tao	condom; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
安全局	an	ju	security bureau
安全岛	an	dao	traffic island; pedestrian refuge
安全带	an	dai	seat belt; safety belt
安全帽	an	mao	safety helmet; hard hat; CL:頂|顶[ding3]
安全性	an	xing	security; safety
安全感	an	gan	sense of security
安全掣	an	che	emergency stop
安全措施	an	shi	safety measure; precaution; (coll.) (euphemism) contraception; protection
安全无事	an	shi	safe and sound
安全无恙	an	yang	see 安然無恙|安然无恙[an1 ran2 wu2 yang4]
安全无虞	an	yu	safe and secure
安全期	an	qi	safe period; safe days of a woman's menstrual cycle (low risk of conception)
安全气囊	an	nang	safety airbag (auto.)
安全港	an	gang	safe harbor; safe haven
安全灯	an	deng	safety lamp; safelight
安全理事会	an	hui	(United Nations) Security Council
安全眼罩	an	zhao	safety goggles
安全网	an	wang	safety net
安全考虑	an	lv	security concerns; safety considerations
安全裤	an	ku	safety shorts (worn under a skirt or dress to prevent accidental exposure)
安全词	an	ci	(BDSM) safe word
安全问题	an	ti	safety issue; security issue
安全阀	an	fa	safety valve
安养院	an	yuan	(Tw) nursing home; hospice
安分守己	an	ji	to be content with one's lot (idiom); to know one's place
安化县	an	xian	Anhua, a county in Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
安南区	an	qu	Annan district of Tainan City 臺南市|台南市[Tai2 nan2 shi4], Taiwan
安南子	an	zi	see 胖大海[pang4 da4 hai3]
安南山脉	an	mai	Annamite Range, aka Annamese Cordillera, mountain range forming the border between Vietnam and Laos
安卡拉	an	la	Ankara, capital of Turkey
安史之乱	an	luan	An-Shi Rebellion (755-763) of 安祿山|安禄山[An1 Lu4 shan1] and 史思明[Shi3 Si1 ming2], a catastrophic setback for Tang dynasty
安吉县	an	xian	Anji, a county in Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
安吉尔	an	er	angel (loanword)
安吉星	an	xing	OnStar, an in-vehicle telematics service
安哥拉	an	la	Angola
安国市	an	shi	Anguo, a county-level city in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
安图县	an	xian	Antu, a county in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
安土重迁	an	qian	to hate to leave a place where one has lived long; to be attached to one's native land and unwilling to leave it
安圭拉	an	la	Anguilla
安地卡及巴布达	an	da	Antigua and Barbuda (Tw)
安地斯	an	si	the Andes mountains
安培小时	an	shi	ampere-hour (Ah)
安培表	an	biao	ammeter
安培计	an	ji	ammeter
安塔那那利佛	an	fo	Antananarivo, capital of Madagascar (Tw)
安塞区	an	qu	Ansai, a district of Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
安多县	an	xian	Amdo, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
安多芬	an	fen	endorphin (loanword)
安大略湖	an	hu	Lake Ontario, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
安大略省	an	sheng	Ontario province, Canada
安太岁	an	sui	to propitiate the god of the current year, Tai Sui 太歲|太岁[Tai4 sui4]
安好心	an	xin	to have good intentions
安如泰山	an	shan	as secure as Mount Taishan; as solid as a rock
安如磐石	an	shi	as solid as rock (idiom); as sure as houses
安宁区	an	qu	Anning, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
安宁市	an	shi	Anning, a county-level city in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
安宁片	an	pian	meprobamate
安宁病房	an	fang	hospice
安定化	an	hua	stabilization
安定区	an	qu	Anding, a district of Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
安定器	an	qi	(Tw) electrical ballast
安定时间	an	jian	(control theory) settling time
安定门	an	men	Andingmen neighborhood of Beijing
安家立业	an	ye	stable household, established profession (idiom); settled and comfortably off
安家落户	an	hu	to make one's home in a place; to settle
安富尊荣	an	rong	well-off and respected (idiom); to be content with one's wealth and position
安富恤穷	an	qiong	to give sympathy to the rich and relief to the poor (idiom)
安富恤贫	an	pin	to give sympathy to the rich and relief to the poor (idiom)
安居乐业	an	ye	to live in peace and work happily (idiom)
安居区	an	qu	Anju, a district of Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
安居工程	an	cheng	housing project for low-income urban residents
安山岩	an	yan	andesite (geology)
安岳县	an	xian	Anyue, a county in Ziyang City 資陽市|资阳市[Zi1 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
安州区	an	qu	Anzhou, a district of Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
安平区	an	qu	Anping, a district of Tainan 臺南市|台南市[Tai2 nan2 Shi4], Taiwan
安平县	an	xian	Anping, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
安庆市	an	shi	Anqing, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
安康市	an	shi	Ankang, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
安徒生	an	sheng	Hans Christian Andersen (1805-1875)
安得拉邦	an	bang	Andhra Pradesh or Andhra State in southeast India
安德海	an	hai	An Dehai (-1869), the Qing equivalent of Rasputin, all-powerful court eunuch with the dowager empress Cixi 慈禧太后[Ci2 xi3 tai4 hou4], executed in 1869 by her rival Empress Mother Empress Dowager Ci'an 慈安皇太后
安德烈	an	lie	Andre (person name)
安德肋	an	lei	Andrew (Catholic transliteration)
安德鲁	an	lu	Andrew (name)
安徽大学	an	xue	Anhui University
安徽省	an	sheng	Anhui Province, capital Hefei 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4] (short name 皖[Wan3])
安息国	an	guo	Parthia
安息日	an	ri	Sabbath
安息茴香	an	xiang	see 孜然[zi1 ran2], cumin
安息香	an	xiang	Styrax officinalis or Styrax benzoin; benzoin resin (used in TCM); Benzoinum
安息香属	an	shu	Styrax (tree genus); snowdrop; benzoin
安息香科	an	ke	Styracaceae, tree family including silver-bell, snowdrop and benzoin
安息香脂	an	zhi	benzoinum; benzoin resin (used in TCM)
安慰剂	an	ji	placebo
安慰奖	an	jiang	consolation prize
安抚奶嘴	an	zui	(baby's) pacifier
安捷伦科技	an	ji	Agilent Technologies (research and manufacturing company)
安提法	an	fa	antifa (loanword)
安提瓜和巴布达	an	da	Antigua and Barbuda
安提瓜岛	an	dao	Antigua
安新县	an	xian	Anxin, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
安替比林	an	lin	antipyrine (loanword)
安格尔	an	er	Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres (1780-1867), French Neoclassical painter
安格斯	an	si	Angus, a traditional county of Scotland, now a "council area"
安格斯牛	an	niu	Angus, Scottish breed of beef cattle
安次区	an	qu	Anci, a district of Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
安步当车	an	che	to go on foot (idiom); to do things at a leisurely pace
安民告示	an	shi	a notice to reassure the public; advance notice (of an agenda)
安泽县	an	xian	Anze, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
安源区	an	qu	Anyuan, a district of Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安溪县	an	xian	Anxi, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
安然无恙	an	yang	safe and sound (idiom); to come out unscathed (e.g. from an accident or illness)
安特卫普	an	pu	Antwerp (city in Belgium)
安理会	an	hui	(United Nations) Security Council
安琪儿	an	er	angel (loanword)
安瓦尔	an	er	(name) Anwar; Anwar Ibrahim (1947–), Malaysian politician, prime minister 2022–
安瓿瓶	an	ping	ampoule (loanword)
安眠药	an	yao	sleeping pill; CL:粒[li4]
安眠酮	an	tong	methaqualone; hyminal
安睡裤	an	ku	disposable period underwear (esp. for overnight use)
安石榴	an	liu	pomegranate
安祖花	an	hua	flamingo lily (Anthurium andraeanum)
安禄山	an	shan	An Lushan (703-757), Tang general, leader of the An-Shi Rebellion 安史之亂|安史之乱[An1 Shi3 zhi1 Luan4]
安福县	an	xian	Anfu, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安第斯山脉	an	mai	the Andes Mountains (in South America)
安纳托利亚	an	ya	Anatolia; Asia Minor
安纳波利斯	an	si	Annapolis (place name)
安老院	an	yuan	(dialect) old people's home; nursing home
安营扎寨	an	zhai	to set up camp; Taiwan pr. [an1 ying2 zha2 zhai4]
安装包	an	bao	(computing) installation package
安贫乐道	an	dao	to be content with poverty and strive for virtue (idiom)
安赛蜜	an	mi	acesulfame potassium
安身立命	an	ming	(idiom) to settle down and pursue one's path in life
安达市	an	shi	Anda, a county-level city in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
安达曼岛	an	dao	Andaman islands; variant of 安達曼群島|安达曼群岛[An1 da2 man4 Qun2 dao3]
安达曼海	an	hai	Andaman Sea
安达曼群岛	an	dao	Andaman Islands
安远县	an	xian	Anyuan, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
安道尔	an	er	Andorra
安道尔共和国	an	guo	Republic of Andorra
安道尔城	an	cheng	Andorra la Vella, capital of Andorra
安邦定国	an	guo	to bring peace and stability to the country
安重根	an	gen	An Jung-geun or Ahn Joong-keun (1879-1910), Korean independence activist, famous as assassin of Japanese prime minister ITŌ Hirobumi 伊藤博文[Yi1 teng2 Bo2 wen2] in 1909
安闲自在	an	zai	leisurely and free (idiom); carefree and at ease
安闲自得	an	de	feeling comfortably at ease (idiom)
安闲舒适	an	shi	leisurely and free (idiom); carefree and at ease
安闲随意	an	yi	leisurely and free (idiom); carefree and at ease
安阳县	an	xian	Anyang, a county in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
安阳市	an	shi	Anyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
安陆市	an	shi	Anlu, a county-level city in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
安非他命	an	ming	amphetamine (medical) (loanword)
安非他明	an	ming	amphetamine (loanword)
安顺市	an	shi	Anshun, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
安魂弥撒	an	sa	Requiem Mass (Catholic)
安龙县	an	xian	Anlong, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
宋任穷	song	qiong	Song Renqiong (1909-2005), general of the People's Liberation Army
宋四大书	song	shu	Four great compilations of Northern Song dynasty, namely: Extensive records of the Taiping era (978) 太平廣記|太平广记, Imperial readings of the Taiping era 太平御覽|太平御览, Prime tortoise of the record bureau 冊府元龜|册府元龟, Finest blossoms in the garden of literature 文苑英華|文苑英华
宋四家	song	jia	four famous Song calligraphers, namely: Su Shi 蘇軾|苏轼[Su1 Shi4], Huang Tingjian 黃庭堅|黄庭坚[Huang2 Ting2 jian1], Mi Fu 米芾[Mi3 Fu2] and Cai Xiang 蔡襄[Cai4 Xiang1]
宋太祖	song	zu	Emperor Taizu of Song, posthumous title of the founding Song emperor Zhao Kuangyin 趙匡胤|赵匡胤 (927-976), reigned from 960
宋干节	song	jie	Songkran (Thai New Year festival)
宋庆龄	song	ling	Song Qingling (1893-1981), second wife of Sun Yat-sen 孫中山|孙中山[Sun1 Zhong1 shan1], influential political figure in China after Sun's death in 1925
宋徽宗	song	zong	Emperor Huizong (Song Dynasty)
宋教仁	song	ren	Song Jiaoren (1882-1913), politician of the revolutionary party involved in the 1911 Xinhai revolution, murdered in Shanghai in 1913
宋楚瑜	song	yu	James Soong (1942-), Taiwanese politician expelled from Guomindang in 2000 when he founded People First Party 親民黨|亲民党
宋武帝	song	di	Emperor Wu of Song (363-422), personal name Liu Yu 劉裕|刘裕[Liu2 Yu4], founder of Song of the Southern dynasties 劉宋|刘宋[Liu2 Song4], broke away from Eastern Jin in 420, reigned 420-422
宋祖英	song	ying	Song Zuying (1966-), Chinese folk music singer
宋美龄	song	ling	Soong Mei-ling (1898-2003), Chiang Kai-shek's second wife
宋襄公	song	gong	Duke Xiang of Song (reigned 650-637 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
完事大吉	wan	ji	(idiom) (usu. after 就[jiu4]) (having done such-and-such) everything is now fine; that's the end of the matter; (one is) all set
完全归纳推理	wan	li	inference by complete induction
完型填空	wan	kong	cloze (pedagogy)
完备性	wan	xing	completeness
完好如初	wan	chu	intact; untouched; as good as before
完好无损	wan	sun	in good condition; undamaged; intact
完好无缺	wan	que	in perfect condition; without any defect
完完全全	wan	quan	completely
完形填空	wan	kong	cloze (pedagogy)
完形心理学	wan	xue	Gestalt psychology (concerned with treating a subject as a coherent whole)
完形心理治疗	wan	liao	Gestalt psychotherapy
完形测验	wan	yan	Gestalt test
完成时	wan	shi	perfect tense (grammar)
完整性	wan	xing	integrity; completeness
完犊子	wan	zi	(coll.) to be done for
完璧之身	wan	shen	undefiled (girl); virgin; (of computer system) clean
完璧归赵	wan	zhao	lit. to return the jade annulus to Zhao (idiom); fig. to return something intact to its rightful owner
完美主义者	wan	zhe	perfectionist
完美无瑕	wan	xia	flawless; immaculate; perfect
完美无缺	wan	que	perfect and without blemish; flawless; to leave nothing to be desired
宏伟区	hong	qu	Hongwei, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
宏病毒	hong	du	macro virus (computing)
宏碁集团	hong	tuan	Acer, Taiwanese PC company
宏观世界	hong	jie	macrocosm; the world in the large
宏观经济	hong	ji	macroeconomic
宏观经济学	hong	xue	macroeconomics
宏观调控	hong	kong	macro-control
宏都拉斯	hong	si	Honduras (Tw)
宕昌县	tan	xian	Tanchang, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
宗主国	zong	guo	suzerain state; mother country (of a colony)
宗主权	zong	quan	suzerainty
宗喀巴	zong	ba	Tsongkhapa (1357-1419), Tibetan religious leader, founder of the Gelugpa school 格魯派|格鲁派[Ge2 lu3 pai4]
宗圣侯	zong	hou	hereditary title bestowed on Confucius' descendants
宗圣公	zong	gong	hereditary title bestowed on Confucius' descendants
宗教仪式	zong	shi	religious ceremony
宗教团	zong	tuan	religious order; religious grouping
宗教学	zong	xue	religious studies
宗教徒	zong	tu	adherent of religion; disciple
宗教改革	zong	ge	(Protestant) Reformation
宗教法庭	zong	ting	Inquisition (religion)
宗派主义	zong	yi	sectarianism
官二代	guan	dai	children of officials; word created by analogy with 富二代[fu4 er4 dai4]
官僚主义	guan	yi	bureaucracy
官僚习气	guan	qi	(derog.) bureaucracy; red tape
官厅水库	guan	ku	Guanting or Kuan-ting Reservoir in Hebei, one of the main water reservoirs serving Beijing
官场现形记	guan	ji	Observations on the Current State of Officialdom, late Qing novel by Li Baojia 李寶嘉|李宝嘉[Li3 Bao3 jia4]
官复原职	guan	zhi	restored to one's official post; to send sb back to his former post
官官相护	guan	hu	officials shield one another (idiom); a cover-up
官宦人家	guan	jia	family of a functionary (i.e. educated middle class in Qing times)
官房长官	guan	guan	chief cabinet secretary (Japan)
官报私仇	guan	chou	to take advantage of official post for personal revenge (idiom)
官方语言	guan	yan	official language
官架子	guan	zi	putting on official airs
官样文章	guan	zhang	officialese; red tape
官渡之战	guan	zhan	Battle of Guandu of 199 that established Cao Cao's 曹操[Cao2 Cao1] domination over north China, at Guandu (near modern 許昌|许昌[Xu3 chang1] in north Henan)
官渡区	guan	qu	Guandu, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
官私合营	guan	ying	public and private interests working together (idiom)
官老爷	guan	ye	nickname for official
官能团	guan	tuan	(chemistry) functional group
官能基	guan	ji	(Tw) (chemistry) functional group
官运亨通	guan	tong	(of a political career) everything is going smoothly (idiom)
官逼民反	guan	fan	a government official drives the people to revolt (idiom); a minister provokes a rebellion by exploiting the people
宙斯盾战斗系统	zhou	tong	Aegis Combat System (weapons system developed for the US Navy)
定义域	ding	yu	domain (math.)
定于一尊	ding	zun	(idiom) to rely on a single authority to determine what is correct; to regard a source (or entity or individual) as the ultimate authority
定位球	ding	qiu	(football) set piece (a restart of play following a stoppage, including free kicks, corner kicks, penalty kicks, goal kicks and throw-ins)
定兴县	ding	xian	Dingxing, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
定冠词	ding	ci	definite article (grammar)
定南县	ding	xian	Dingnan, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
定向培育	ding	yu	directed breeding
定向越野	ding	ye	cross-country orienteering
定场白	ding	bai	first soliloquy (introducing opera character)
定场诗	ding	shi	first soliloquy text (introducing opera character)
定型水	ding	shui	hairspray
定安县	ding	xian	Ding'an county, Hainan
定居点	ding	dian	settlement
定居者	ding	zhe	settler
定州市	ding	shi	Dingzhou, county-level city directly administered by Hebei Province
定常态	ding	tai	constant state; fixed state
定座率	ding	lv	occupancy (i.e. proportion of seats occupied)
定心丸	ding	wan	tranquilizer; sth that sets one's mind at ease
定性分析	ding	xi	qualitative inorganic analysis
定性理论	ding	lun	qualitative theory
定日县	ding	xian	Tingri, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
定时信管	ding	guan	timed detonator
定时器	ding	qi	timer
定时摄影	ding	ying	time-lapse photography
定时炸弹	ding	dan	time bomb
定时钟	ding	zhong	timer; timing clock; alarm clock
定期储蓄	ding	xu	fixed deposit (banking)
定期存款	ding	kuan	fixed deposit; time deposit; certificate of deposit (banking)
定标器	ding	qi	scaler
定海区	ding	qu	Dinghai, a district of Zhoushan City 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 Shi4], Zhejiang
定海神针	ding	zhen	another name for 金箍棒[jin1 gu1 bang4], the Monkey King's golden cudgel; (fig.) stabilizing force
定点厂	ding	chang	factory designated by the state to make a particular product
定点茶	ding	cha	(Tw) (euphemism) prostitute service at a massage parlor or other place designated by the service provider
定焦镜头	ding	tou	prime lens
定界符	ding	fu	delimiter (computing)
定盘星	ding	xing	the zero point indicator marked on a steelyard; fixed opinion; solid idea
定结县	ding	xian	Dinggyê, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
定襄县	ding	xian	Dingxiang, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
定西市	ding	shi	Dingxi, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
定调子	ding	zi	to set the tone
定边县	ding	xian	Dingbian, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
定远县	ding	xian	Dingyuan, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
定速巡航	ding	hang	(automotive) cruise control
定量分析	ding	xi	quantitative analysis
定陶区	ding	qu	Dingtao, a district of Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
定音鼓	ding	gu	timpani
定额组	ding	zu	quorum
定风针	ding	zhen	wind vane; anemometer; weathercock
宛城区	wan	qu	Wancheng, a district of Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
宜丰县	yi	xian	Yifeng, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
宜兰县	yi	xian	Yilan County in northeast Taiwan
宜兰市	yi	shi	Yilan City in Yilan County 宜蘭縣|宜兰县[Yi2 lan2 Xian4], northeast Taiwan
宜兴市	yi	shi	Yixing, a county-level city in Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
宜君县	yi	xian	Yijun, a county in Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
宜城市	yi	shi	Yicheng, a county-level city in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
宜宾市	yi	shi	Yibin, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
宜川县	yi	xian	Yichuan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
宜州区	yi	qu	Yizhou, a district of Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
宜昌市	yi	shi	Yichang, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
宜春市	yi	shi	Yichun, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
宜秀区	yi	qu	Yixiu, a district of Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
宜章县	yi	xian	Yizhang, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
宜良县	yi	xian	Yiliang, a county in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
宜都市	yi	shi	Yidu, a county-level city in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
宜阳县	yi	xian	Yiyang, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
宜黄县	yi	xian	Yihuang, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
宝丰县	bao	xian	Baofeng, a county in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
宝丽来	bao	lai	Polaroid
宝丽金	bao	jin	PolyGram (record label)
宝兴县	bao	xian	Baoxing, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
宝兴歌鸫	bao	dong	(bird species of China) Chinese thrush (Turdus mupinensis)
宝兴鹛雀	bao	que	(bird species of China) rufous-tailed babbler (Moupinia poecilotis)
宝刀不老	bao	lao	lit. a good sword always remains sharp (idiom); fig. (of one's skills etc) to be as good as ever; the old man still has it
宝刀未老	bao	lao	treasure knife does not age (idiom); old but still vigorous
宝可梦	bao	meng	Pokémon
宝嘉康蒂	bao	di	Pocahontas (c. 1595-1617), native American noted for her association with the colony of Jamestown, Virginia
宝坻区	bao	qu	Baodi rural district in Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
宝塔区	bao	qu	Baota, a district of Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
宝塔菜	bao	cai	Chinese artichoke (Stachys affinis), perennial plant with an edible rhizome
宝安区	bao	qu	Bao'an, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
宝山区	bao	qu	Baoshang district of Shanghai; Baoshan district of Shuangyashan city 雙鴨山|双鸭山[Shuang1 ya1 shan1], Heilongjiang
宝应县	bao	xian	Baoying, a county in Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
宝成铁路	bao	lu	Baoji-Chengdu Railway
宝武钢铁	bao	tie	Baowu, the world's largest steel maker, resulting from the merger of Baosteel 寶鋼集團|宝钢集团[Bao3 gang1 Ji2 tuan2] and Wuhan Iron and Steel 武漢鋼鐵|武汉钢铁[Wu3 han4 Gang1 tie3] in 2016
宝洁公司	bao	si	Procter & Gamble
宝清县	bao	xian	Baoqing, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
宝特瓶	bao	ping	plastic bottle
宝瓶座	bao	zuo	Aquarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac); also called 水瓶座
宝生佛	bao	fo	Ratnasambhava Buddha
宝盖草	bao	cao	henbit deadnettle (Lamium amplexicaule)
宝莱坞	bao	wu	Bollywood (film industry based in Mumbai, India)
宝葫芦	bao	lu	magic gourd, granting your every wish
宝葫芦的秘密	bao	mi	Secret of the Magic Gourd (1958), prize-winning children's fairy tale by Zhang Tianyi 張天翼|张天翼[Zhang1 Tian1 yi4]
宝贝儿	bao	r	erhua variant of 寶貝|宝贝[bao3 bei4]
宝贝疙瘩	bao	da	(of a child) apple of one's eye
宝马香车	bao	che	precious horses and magnificent carriage (idiom); rich family with extravagant lifestyle; ostentatious display of luxury
宝鸡市	bao	shi	Baoji, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
实不相瞒	shi	man	truth to tell; to be quite honest...
实业家	shi	jia	industrialist
实习生	shi	sheng	intern (esp. a student in practical training)
实事求是	shi	shi	lit. to seek truth from facts (idiom); fig. to be practical and realistic
实体书	shi	shu	physical book
实体层	shi	ceng	physical layer (OSI)
实体店	shi	dian	brick and mortar business; physical (rather than online) retail store
实况主	shi	zhu	live vlogger; live-streamer
实况录音	shi	yin	live recording
实况照片	shi	pian	live photo; motion photo (a still photo with a few seconds of video captured before and after the photo is taken)
实况转播	shi	bo	to broadcast live from the scene; live relay
实分析	shi	xi	real analysis; calculus of real variables
实利主义	shi	yi	utilitarianism
实力主义	shi	yi	meritocracy
实受资本	shi	ben	paid-up capital
实变函数	shi	shu	function of a real variable (math.)
实变函数论	shi	lun	(math.) theory of functions of a real variable
实名制	shi	zhi	system for identifying users (on a rail network, the Internet etc)
实地访视	shi	shi	onsite visit
实属不易	shi	yi	really not easy (idiom)
实干家	shi	jia	sb who gets things done; doer
实心皮球	shi	qiu	medicine ball
实打实	shi	shi	(coll.) rock-solid; no-nonsense; undeniably genuine (esp. of skills, effort, performance or service)
实报实销	shi	xiao	to be reimbursed for actual expenses
实控人	shi	ren	(corporations law) actual controller (abbr. for 實際控制人|实际控制人[shi2 ji4 kong4 zhi4 ren2])
实收资本	shi	ben	paid-in capital; contributed capital (finance)
实数值	shi	zhi	real-valued (math.); taking real numbers as values (of a function)
实数集	shi	ji	set of real numbers
实施例	shi	li	(patent) implementation; embodiment
实物教学	shi	xue	object lesson
实生苗	shi	miao	seedling
实用主义	shi	yi	pragmatism
实用价值	shi	zhi	practical value
实缴资本	shi	ben	paid-in capital; contributed capital (finance)
实至名归	shi	gui	fame follows merit (idiom)
实证主义	shi	yi	positivism; empiricism
实话实说	shi	shuo	to tell the truth; to tell it as it is
实质上	shi	shang	virtually; essentially
实质性	shi	xing	substantive; substantial; material
实际上	shi	shang	in fact; in reality; as a matter of fact
实际参数	shi	shu	(computing) actual parameter; argument
实际应用	shi	yong	practical application
实际性	shi	xing	practicality
实际情况	shi	kuang	actual circumstances; the real situation; reality
实际控制人	shi	ren	(corporations law) actual controller
实际控制线	shi	xian	Line of Actual Control (LAC), separating Indian-controlled territory from Chinese-controlled territory
实验室	shi	shi	laboratory; CL:間|间[jian1]
实验室感染	shi	ran	laboratory infection
实验心理学	shi	xue	experimental psychology
实验所	shi	suo	laboratory; institute
实验组	shi	zu	experimental group; treatment group
宠妾灭妻	chong	qi	favor the concubine and do away with the wife (idiom); spoil one's mistress and neglect one's wife
宠擅专房	chong	fang	an especially favored concubine (idiom)
宠物门	chong	men	pet door; pet flap
审判员	shen	yuan	judge (in court)
审判官	shen	guan	judge; magistrate
审判席	shen	xi	judgment seat
审判庭	shen	ting	court; tribunal; courtroom
审判权	shen	quan	jurisdiction; judicial authority
审判栏	shen	lan	judgment bar
审判长	shen	zhang	presiding judge
审度时势	shen	shi	to examine and judge the situation
审慎行事	shen	shi	to act prudently; steering a cautious course
审时度势	shen	shi	to judge the hour and size up the situation; to take stock
审稿人	shen	ren	reviewer (of a paper)
审级制度	shen	du	system of appeals (to higher court)
审美快感	shen	gan	esthetic pleasure
审美活动	shen	dong	appreciating the arts; esthetic activity
审美疲劳	shen	lao	aesthetic fatigue
审美眼光	shen	guang	an eye for beauty; aesthetic judgment
审美观	shen	guan	esthetic conception; esthetic point of view; standard
审计员	shen	yuan	accountant; auditor
审计署	shen	shu	audit office; public accounts committee
审计长	shen	zhang	auditor
客似云来	ke	lai	to be bustling with customers
客制化	ke	hua	customization (Tw)
客单价	ke	jia	average transaction value per customer (i.e. the average amount a customer spends per visit or transaction)
客套话	ke	hua	conventional greeting; polite formula
客家人	ke	ren	Hakka people
客家话	ke	hua	Hakka dialect
客家语	ke	yu	Hakka (a Chinese dialect)
客座教授	ke	shou	visiting professor; guest professor
客户应用	ke	yong	client application
客户服务	ke	wu	customer service; client service
客户服务部	ke	bu	customer service division
客户机	ke	ji	client (computer)
客户机软件	ke	jian	client software
客户端	ke	duan	client (computing)
客房服务	ke	wu	room service
客死他乡	ke	xiang	see 客死異鄉|客死异乡[ke4 si3 yi4 xiang1]
客死异乡	ke	xiang	to die in a foreign land (idiom)
客气话	ke	hua	words of politeness; politesse; decorous talking
客蚤属	ke	shu	Xenopsylla (the flea genus)
客西马尼园	ke	yuan	Garden of Gethsemane
客观世界	ke	jie	the objective world (as opposed to empirical observation)
客观主义	ke	yi	objectivist philosophy
客观唯心主义	ke	yi	objective idealism (in Hegel's philosophy)
客观性	ke	xing	objectivity
客运量	ke	liang	amount of passenger traffic
宣传册	xuan	ce	commercial brochure; advertising pamphlet; flyer
宣传攻势	xuan	shi	marketing campaign
宣传画	xuan	hua	propaganda poster; advertising hoarding
宣传部	xuan	bu	Propaganda Department
宣化区	xuan	qu	Xuanhua, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
宣城市	xuan	shi	Xuancheng, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
宣威市	xuan	shi	Xuanwei, a county-level city in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
宣州区	xuan	qu	Xuanzhou, a district of Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
宣布破产	xuan	chan	to declare bankruptcy
宣恩县	xuan	xian	Xuan'en, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
宣武门	xuan	men	Xuanwumen, Beijing
宣汉县	xuan	xian	Xuanhan, a county in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
宣礼塔	xuan	ta	minaret
宣誓书	xuan	shu	affidavit
宣誓供词证明	xuan	ming	(law) affidavit; deposition
宣誓就职	xuan	zhi	to swear the oath of office
宣誓证言	xuan	yan	sworn testimony
室内乐	shi	yue	chamber music
室内装潢	shi	huang	interior decorating
室内设计	shi	ji	interior design
室女座	shi	zuo	Virgo (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
室町幕府	shi	fu	Muromachi bakufu, the feudal government of Japan (1338-1573) under the Ashikaga shoguns
室迩人遐	shi	xia	to long for sb far away; to grieve over the dead
宦海风波	huan	bo	lit. raging sea of bureaucracy; officials causing a big fuss
宪兵队	xian	dui	military police corps
宪政主义	xian	yi	constitutionalism
宪法法院	xian	yuan	Constitutional Court
宪法监护委员会	xian	hui	Guardian Council, body of 12 appointed clerics which governs Iran
宪章派	xian	pai	the Chartist movement (in the 1840s in England)
宫保鸡丁	gong	ding	Kung Pao Chicken; spicy diced chicken
宫内节育器	gong	qi	intrauterine device (IUD)
宫商角徵羽	gong	yu	pre-Tang names of the five notes of the pentatonic scale, corresponding roughly to do, re, mi, sol, la
宫外孕	gong	yun	ectopic pregnancy
宫崎吾朗	gong	lang	Miyazaki Gorō (1967-), Japanese film director
宫崎骏	gong	jun	Miyazaki Hayao (1941-), Japanese director
宫泽喜一	gong	yi	Kiichi Miyazawa (1919-2007), former Japanese prime minister
宫爆肉丁	gong	ding	stir-fried diced pork
宫爆鸡丁	gong	ding	gong bao chicken; spicy diced chicken
宫颈管	gong	guan	(anatomy) cervical canal
宰牲节	zai	jie	see 古爾邦節|古尔邦节[Gu3 er3 bang1 jie2]
害人不浅	hai	qian	(idiom) (usu. of behaviors, systems or trends etc) to cause people tremendous harm
害人精	hai	jing	goblin that kills or harms people; fig. wicked scoundrel; terrible pest
害人虫	hai	chong	pest; evildoer
害月子	hai	zi	morning sickness (in pregnancy)
害相思病	hai	bing	sick with love
害群之马	hai	ma	lit. a horse that brings trouble to its herd (idiom); fig. troublemaker; black sheep
害肚子	hai	zi	upset stomach; stomachache
宴会厅	yan	ting	ballroom; banqueting hall
宵衣旰食	xiao	shi	to dress before light and not eat before dark (idiom); diligently attending to official matters
家丑不可外传	jia	chuan	lit. family shames must not be spread abroad (idiom); fig. don't wash your dirty linen in public
家丑不可外扬	jia	yang	lit. family shames must not be spread abroad (idiom); fig. don't wash your dirty linen in public
家乐氏	jia	shi	Kellogg's (US food manufacturing company)
家乐福	jia	fu	Carrefour, French supermarket chain
家乡菜	jia	cai	regional dish; local cuisine
家乡话	jia	hua	native language; native dialect
家八哥	jia	ge	(bird species of China) common myna (Acridotheres tristis)
家务活	jia	huo	household chore
家和万事兴	jia	xing	if the family lives in harmony all affairs will prosper (idiom)
家喻户晓	jia	xiao	understood by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
家大业大	jia	da	(idiom) to have a sprawling business
家家户户	jia	hu	each and every family (idiom); every household
家家有本难念的经	jia	jing	every family has its problems (idiom)
家家酒	jia	jiu	(Tw) house (children's game); playing house
家居卖场	jia	chang	furniture store; furniture mall
家常便饭	jia	fan	simple home-style meal; common occurrence; nothing out of the ordinary
家常菜	jia	cai	home cooking
家常豆腐	jia	fu	home-style tofu
家庭主夫	jia	fu	househusband
家庭主妇	jia	fu	housewife; stay-at-home wife
家庭作业	jia	ye	homework
家庭地址	jia	zhi	home address
家庭影院	jia	yuan	home cinema; home theater
家庭成员	jia	yuan	family member
家庭教师	jia	shi	tutor
家庭暴力	jia	li	domestic violence
家庭煮夫	jia	fu	househusband
家徒四壁	jia	bi	lit. with only four bare walls for a home (idiom); fig. very poor; wretched
家政员	jia	yuan	housekeeping staff
家政学	jia	xue	family and consumer science
家族树	jia	shu	a family tree
家用电器	jia	qi	domestic electric appliance
家用电脑	jia	nao	home computer
家破人亡	jia	wang	family bankrupt and the people dead (idiom); ruined and orphaned; destitute and homeless
家累千金坐不垂堂	jia	tang	lit. a wealthy person does not sit under the eaves (idiom); fig. a rich man does not expose himself to danger
家给人足	jia	zu	lit. each household provided for, enough for the individual (idiom); comfortably off
家花没有野花香	jia	xiang	lit. the flowers in one's garden cannot match the fragrance of wild flowers (idiom); fig. other women seem more attractive than one's own partner; the grass is always greener on the other side
家贫如洗	jia	xi	extreme poverty (idiom); destitute; penniless; poor as church mice
家赀万贯	jia	guan	immensely rich
家道中落	jia	luo	to come down in the world (idiom); to suffer a reversal of fortune
家里蹲	jia	dun	recluse; hikikomori person
家长会	jia	hui	parent-teacher conference; parents' association
家长制	jia	zhi	patriarchal system
家长家短	jia	duan	family goings-on
家雀儿	jia	r	(coll.) sparrow
家鸭绿头鸭	jia	ya	mallard; duck (Anas platyrhyncha)
家麻雀	jia	que	(bird species of China) house sparrow (Passer domesticus)
容不得	rong	de	unable to tolerate; intolerant; unable to bear sth
容光焕发	rong	fa	face glowing (idiom); looking radiant; all smiles
容华绝代	rong	dai	to be blessed with rare and radiant beauty (idiom)
容城县	rong	xian	Rongcheng, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
容祖儿	rong	er	Joey Yung (1980-), Hong Kong pop singer and actress
容积效率	rong	lv	volumetric efficiency (engine technology)
容量分析	rong	xi	quantitative analysis; volumetric analysis
容颜失色	rong	se	(of complexion) to lose one's color; to blanch; to look wan
宽以待人	kuan	ren	to be lenient with others (idiom)
宽吻海豚	kuan	tun	bottle-nosed dolphin (Tursiops truncatus)
宽嘴鹟莺	kuan	ying	(bird species of China) broad-billed warbler (Tickellia hodgsoni)
宽城区	kuan	qu	Kuancheng, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
宽城县	kuan	xian	see 寬城滿族自治縣|宽城满族自治县[Kuan1 cheng2 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
宽城满族自治县	kuan	xian	Kuancheng Manchu Autonomous County, in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
宽大为怀	kuan	huai	magnanimous (idiom); generous
宽宏大度	kuan	du	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
宽宏大量	kuan	liang	magnanimous (idiom); generous
宽尾树莺	kuan	ying	(bird species of China) Cetti's warbler (Cettia cetti)
宽广度	kuan	du	width; breadth
宽影片	kuan	pian	wide-screen movie
宽心丸	kuan	wan	reassuring explanation; consolatory words
宽心丸儿	kuan	r	erhua variant of 寬心丸|宽心丸[kuan1 xin1 wan2]
宽打窄用	kuan	yong	to give oneself leeway (idiom); to allow room for error
宽洪大度	kuan	du	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
宽洪大量	kuan	liang	magnanimous; generous; broad-minded
宽甸县	kuan	xian	see 寬甸滿族自治縣|宽甸满族自治县[Kuan1 dian4 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
宽甸满族自治县	kuan	xian	Kuandian Manchu Autonomous County, in Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
宽胶带	kuan	dai	duct tape
宽衣解带	kuan	dai	to undress
宽银幕电影	kuan	ying	widescreen movie
宽限期	kuan	qi	grace period; period of grace
宾主尽欢	bin	huan	both the guests and the hosts thoroughly enjoy themselves (idiom)
宾夕法尼亚	bin	ya	Pennsylvania
宾夕法尼亚大学	bin	xue	University of Pennsylvania
宾夕法尼亚州	bin	zhou	Pennsylvania
宾客盈门	bin	men	guests filled the hall (idiom); a house full of distinguished visitors
宾川县	bin	xian	Binchuan, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
宾朋满座	bin	zuo	guests filled all the seats (idiom); a house full of distinguished visitors
宾朋盈门	bin	men	guests filled the hall (idiom); a house full of distinguished visitors
宾至如归	bin	gui	guests feel at home (in a hotel, guest house etc); a home away from home
宾阳县	bin	xian	Binyang, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
宿务语	su	yu	Cebuano (aka Bisaya), language spoken in parts of the Philippines
宿命论	su	lun	fatalism; fatalistic
宿命通	su	tong	(Buddhism) recollection of past lives; wisdom of past lives (one of six supernatural powers of Buddhas and arhats)
宿城区	su	qu	Sucheng, a district of Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
宿州市	su	shi	Suzhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
宿松县	su	xian	Susong, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
宿舍楼	su	lou	dormitory building; CL:幢[zhuang4],座[zuo4]
宿营地	su	di	camp; campsite
宿豫区	su	qu	Suyu, a district of Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
宿迁市	su	shi	Suqian, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
宿雾语	su	yu	Cebuano (aka Bisaya), language spoken in parts of the Philippines (Tw)
寂寂无名	ji	ming	unknown; unrenowned
寄予厚望	ji	wang	to place high hopes
寄人篱下	ji	xia	to lodge under another person's roof (idiom); to live relying on sb else's charity
寄件人	ji	ren	sender
寄存器	ji	qi	processor register (computing)
寄存处	ji	chu	warehouse; temporary store; left-luggage office
寄宿学校	ji	xiao	boarding school
寄宿生	ji	sheng	boarder
寄居蟹	ji	xie	hermit crab
寄物处	ji	chu	coat check; cloakroom; checkroom
寄物柜	ji	gui	baggage locker; coin locker
寄生物	ji	wu	parasite
寄生生活	ji	huo	parasitic life (of an organism); (fig.) parasitic lifestyle (of a person)
寄生者	ji	zhe	parasite (human)
寄生虫	ji	chong	parasite (biology); (fig.) freeloader
寅吃卯粮	yin	liang	lit. eating away next year's food in advance; fig. to dip into the next month's check; live now, pay later
寅支卯粮	yin	liang	see 寅吃卯糧|寅吃卯粮[yin2 chi1 mao3 liang2]
密不可分	mi	fen	inextricably linked (idiom); inseparable
密不透风	mi	feng	sealed off; impenetrable
密云区	mi	qu	Miyun, a district of Beijing
密克罗尼西亚	mi	ya	Micronesia
密切接触者	mi	zhe	(epidemiology) close contact
密司脱	mi	tuo	variant of 密斯脫|密斯脱[mi4 si1 tuo1]
密室逃脱	mi	tuo	escape room
密密匝匝	mi	za	thick; concentrated; dense
密密实实	mi	shi	thick; concentrated
密密层层	mi	ceng	tightly packed; closely layered
密密扎扎	mi	zha	thick; dense
密密麻麻	mi	ma	numerous and close together; densely packed; thickly dotted
密封胶	mi	jiao	sealant; sealing glue
密封舱	mi	cang	sealed compartment
密尔沃基	mi	ji	Milwaukee (city)
密山市	mi	shi	Mishan, a county-level city in Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
密度波	mi	bo	density wave
密度计	mi	ji	density gauge
密斯脱	mi	tuo	mister (loanword)
密檐塔	mi	ta	multi-eaved pagoda
密歇根	mi	gen	Michigan, US state
密歇根大学	mi	xue	University of Michigan
密歇根湖	mi	hu	Lake Michigan, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
密特朗	mi	lang	Mitterrand
密码保护	mi	hu	password protection
密码子	mi	zi	(biochemistry) codon
密码学	mi	xue	cryptography
密码电报	mi	bao	coded telegram; ciphered cable
密码货币	mi	bi	see 加密貨幣|加密货币[jia1 mi4 huo4 bi4]
密码锁	mi	suo	combination lock
密苏里	mi	li	Missouri
密苏里州	mi	zhou	Missouri
密西根	mi	gen	Michigan, US state (Tw)
密西西比	mi	bi	Mississippi
密西西比河	mi	he	Mississippi River
密闭舱	mi	cang	sealed cabin
密闭货舱	mi	cang	sealed cabin
密闭门	mi	men	airtight door
密集恐惧症	mi	zheng	trypophobia
密麻麻	mi	ma	see 密密麻麻|密密麻麻[mi4 mi5 ma2 ma2]
寇比力克	kou	ke	see 庫布里克|库布里克[Ku4 bu4 li3 ke4]
富不过三代	fu	dai	wealth never survives three generations (idiom)
富丽堂皇	fu	huang	(idiom) (of houses etc) sumptuous
富二代	fu	dai	children of entrepreneurs who became wealthy under Deng Xiaoping's economic reforms in the 1980s; see also 窮二代|穷二代[qiong2 er4 dai4]
富兰克林	fu	lin	(name) Franklin; Benjamin Franklin (1706–1790), US Founding Father, scientist and author
富可敌国	fu	guo	having wealth equivalent to that of an entire nation (idiom); extremely wealthy
富商大贾	fu	gu	(idiom) tycoon; magnate
富商巨贾	fu	gu	(idiom) tycoon; magnate
富国安民	fu	min	to make the country rich and the people at peace
富国强兵	fu	bing	lit. rich country, strong army (idiom); slogan of legalist philosophers in pre-Han times; Make the country wealthy and the military powerful, slogan of modernizers in Qing China and Meiji Japan (Japanese pronunciation: Fukoku kyōhei)
富士山	fu	shan	Mt. Fuji, Japan
富士康	fu	kang	Foxconn Technology Group; abbr. of 富士康科技集團|富士康科技集团[Fu4 shi4 kang1 ke1 ji4 ji2 tuan2]
富士康科技集团	fu	tuan	Foxconn Technology Group
富士通	fu	tong	Fujitsu
富宁县	fu	xian	Funing, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
富家翁	fu	weng	man of wealth; rich man
富富有余	fu	yu	richly provided for; having enough and to spare
富川县	fu	xian	see 富川瑤族自治縣|富川瑶族自治县[Fu4 chuan1 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
富川瑶族自治县	fu	xian	Fuchuan Yao Autonomous County, in Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
富布赖特	fu	te	Fulbright (scholarship)
富平县	fu	xian	Fuping, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
富得流油	fu	you	affluent; very rich
富拉尔基	fu	ji	see 富拉爾基區|富拉尔基区[Fu4 la1 er3 ji1 Qu1]
富拉尔基区	fu	qu	Fularji, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
富文本	fu	ben	(computing) rich text
富春江	fu	jiang	Fuchun River in Zhejiang
富民县	fu	xian	Fumin, a county in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
富源县	fu	xian	Fuyuan, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
富甲一方	fu	fang	(idiom) to be the richest person (or family) in a region; to possess great wealth in one's locality
富纳富提	fu	ti	Funafuti, capital of Tuvalu
富良野	fu	ye	Furano, Hokkaidō, Japan
富色彩	fu	cai	colorful
富蕴县	fu	xian	Fuyun, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
富裕县	fu	xian	Fuyu, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
富贵不能淫	fu	yin	not corrupted by wealth and honors
富贵包	fu	bao	dowager's hump
富贵寿考	fu	kao	rank, wealth, and long life
富贵病	fu	bing	rich person's ailment (needing expensive treatment and long recuperation)
富贵竹	fu	zhu	lucky bamboo (Dracaena sanderiana)
富贵角	fu	jiao	Cape Fukuei, the northernmost point of Taiwan Island
富铁土	fu	tu	ferrosol (soil taxonomy)
富锦市	fu	shi	Fujin, a county-level city in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
富阳区	fu	qu	Fuyang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
富顺县	fu	xian	Fushun, a county in Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
寒亭区	han	qu	Hanting, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
寒光闪闪	han	shan	(of a bladed weapon etc) to gleam coldly
寒暑假	han	jia	winter and summer vacations
寒武爆发	han	fa	the Cambrian explosion
寒武纪	han	ji	Cambrian geological period (541-485.4 million years ago)
寒武纪大爆发	han	fa	the Cambrian explosion
寒武纪生命大爆发	han	fa	the Cambrian explosion
寒蝉效应	han	ying	the chilling effect of a climate of fear in which people are afraid to speak their mind
寒风刺骨	han	gu	bone chilling wind (idiom)
寓意深远	yu	yuan	the implied message is deep (idiom); having deep implications
寓意深长	yu	chang	to have profound import (idiom); to be deeply significant
寓教于乐	yu	le	to make learning fun; to combine education and entertainment
寓管理于服务之中	yu	zhong	to make administration service-oriented
寝苫枕块	qin	kuai	bed of straw and pillow of clay (idiom); the correct etiquette for a filial son during the mourning period
寝食不安	qin	an	see 寢食難安|寝食难安[qin3 shi2 nan2 an1]
寝食难安	qin	an	(lit.) unable to sleep or eat in peace (idiom); (fig.) deeply worried or troubled
察合台	cha	tai	Chagatai (died 1241), a son of Genghis Khan
察哈尔	cha	er	Chahar Province (former province in North China existing from 1912-1936)
察哈尔右翼中旗	cha	qi	Chahar Right Center banner or Caxar Baruun Garyn Dund khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
察哈尔右翼前旗	cha	qi	Chahar Right Front banner or Caxar Baruun Garyn Ömnöd khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
察哈尔右翼后旗	cha	qi	Chahar Right Rear banner or Caxar Baruun Garyn Xoit khoshuu in Ulaanchab 烏蘭察布|乌兰察布[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4], Inner Mongolia
察察为明	cha	ming	keenly observant of trivial details
察尔汗盐湖	cha	hu	Qarhan Salt Lake in west Qinghai
察布查尔	cha	er	see 察布查爾錫伯自治縣|察布查尔锡伯自治县[Cha2 bu4 cha2 er3 Xi1 bo2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
察布查尔县	cha	xian	see 察布查爾錫伯自治縣|察布查尔锡伯自治县[Cha2 bu4 cha2 er3 Xi1 bo2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
察布查尔锡伯自治县	cha	xian	Qapqal Xibe Autonomous County, in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
察言观色	cha	se	to weigh up sb's words and observe their facial expression (idiom); to discern what sb thinks from his body language
察隅县	cha	xian	Zayu, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
察雅县	cha	xian	Zhag'yab, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
寡不敌众	gua	zhong	the few are no match for the many; heavily outnumbered; facing impossible odds (idiom)
寡二少双	gua	shuang	peerless; second to none (idiom)
寡头垄断	gua	duan	oligopoly
寡头政治	gua	zhi	oligarchy
寤寐求之	wu	zhi	(idiom) to long for sb or sth day and night; to seek it unceasingly
寥寥可数	liao	shu	(idiom) very few
寥寥无几	liao	ji	(idiom) very few
寥若晨星	liao	xing	rare as morning stars (idiom); few and far between; sparse
寨卡病毒	zhai	du	Zika virus
寸口脉	cun	mai	pulse taken at the wrist (TCM)
寸土寸金	cun	jin	land is extremely expensive (in that area) (idiom)
寸步不离	cun	li	to follow sb closely (idiom); to keep close to
寸步不让	cun	rang	(idiom) not to yield an inch
寸步难移	cun	yi	see 寸步難行|寸步难行[cun4 bu4 nan2 xing2]
寸步难行	cun	xing	unable to move a single step (idiom); to be in an (extremely) difficult situation
寸草不生	cun	sheng	(idiom) barren; devoid of vegetation
寸金难买寸光阴	cun	yin	An ounce of gold can't buy you an interval of time (idiom); Money can't buy you time.; Time is precious.
对不上	dui	shang	to disagree; I can't agree with that.
对不住	dui	zhu	to let sb down; to be unfair; I'm sorry
对不对	dui	dui	right or wrong?; Is it right?; OK, yes? (colloquial)
对不起	dui	qi	I'm sorry; excuse me; I beg your pardon; to let (sb) down; to disappoint
对世权	dui	quan	(law) absolute rights; erga omnes rights
对乙酰氨基酚	dui	fen	paracetamol; acetaminophen
对事不对人	dui	ren	it's nothing personal (idiom)
对偶多面体	dui	ti	dual polyhedron
对偶性	dui	xing	(math.) duality
对冲基金	dui	jin	hedge fund
对劲儿	dui	r	erhua form of 對勁|对劲[dui4 jin4]
对口型	dui	xing	to lip-sync
对口径	dui	jing	to arrange to give the same story
对口相声	dui	sheng	comic crosstalk; formalized comic dialogue between two stand-up comics: funny man 逗哏[dou4 gen2] and straight man 捧哏[peng3 gen2]
对口词	dui	ci	dialogue (for stage performance)
对号入座	dui	zuo	to take one's seat according to the ticket number; (fig.) to put (things or people) in their right place; to take a general comment as a personal attack
对号座	dui	zuo	reserved seat; assigned seat
对味儿	dui	r	tasty; to one's liking
对外关系	dui	xi	foreign relations
对外政策	dui	ce	foreign policy
对外经济贸易大学	dui	xue	University of International Business and Economics
对外联络部	dui	bu	CCP central committee's external affairs department (i.e. Chinese communist party's foreign office)
对外贸易	dui	yi	foreign trade
对对子	dui	zi	to supply the answering phrase
对对碰	dui	peng	concentration (a pair-matching game)
对工儿	dui	r	proper
对应词	dui	ci	(linguistics) an equivalent; a translation of a term into the target language
对得起	dui	qi	not to let sb down; to treat sb fairly; be worthy of
对心儿	dui	r	erhua variant of 對心|对心[dui4 xin1]
对我来说	dui	shuo	as far as I'm concerned
对抗性	dui	xing	antagonistic
对抗者	dui	zhe	adversary; opponent
对抗赛	dui	sai	duel; match; competition between paired opponents (e.g. sporting)
对撞机	dui	ji	a particle collider
对数函数	dui	shu	logarithmic function
对方付款电话	dui	hua	collect call
对方付费电话	dui	hua	collect call
对映体	dui	ti	enantiomer (chemistry)
对映异构	dui	gou	enantiomeric isomerism (chemistry)
对映异构体	dui	ti	enantiomeric isomer (chemistry)
对比度	dui	du	contrast (balance of black and white in TV screen setup); degree of contrast
对比温度	dui	du	(thermodynamics) reduced temperature (used to compare fluids at different temperatures relative to their critical points)
对比联想	dui	xiang	(psychology) contrastive association
对比色	dui	se	color contrast
对氨基苯丙酮	dui	tong	p-aminopropiophenone
对流层	dui	ceng	(meteorology) troposphere
对流层顶	dui	ding	tropopause; top of troposphere
对照组	dui	zu	control group
对照表	dui	biao	comparison table
对牛弹琴	dui	qin	lit. to play the lute to a cow (idiom); fig. offering a treat to an unappreciative audience; to cast pearls before swine
对症下药	dui	yao	lit. to prescribe the right medicine for an illness (idiom); fig. to study a problem to find the right way to solve it; to take appropriate steps
对着和尚骂贼秃	dui	tu	(lit.) in the presence of a monk, insult another monk, calling him a bald-headed bandit (saying); (fig.) to insult indirectly; to criticize obliquely
对着干	dui	gan	to adopt confrontational posture; to meet head-on; to compete
对称性	dui	xing	symmetry
对称破缺	dui	que	symmetry breaking (physics)
对称空间	dui	jian	symmetric space (math.)
对称美	dui	mei	symmetry (as an aesthetic quality)
对称轴	dui	zhou	axis of symmetry; central axis (in Chinese architecture)
对空射击	dui	ji	anti-aircraft fire; to shoot at enemy planes
对空火器	dui	qi	anti-aircraft gun
对立面	dui	mian	opposite; antonym; the opposite side (in a conflict)
对答如流	dui	liu	able to reply quickly and fluently (idiom); having a ready answer
对簿公堂	dui	tang	public courtroom accusation (idiom); legal confrontation; to take sb to court
对羟基苯甲酸酯	dui	zhi	paraben (chemistry)
对胃口	dui	kou	to one's taste; to one's liking
对苯醌	dui	kun	1,4-benzoquinone (chemistry); para-benzoquinone
对茬儿	dui	r	to agree with; of the same opinion; to coincide
对虾科	dui	ke	penaeidae (the prawn or shrimp family)
对角线	dui	xian	(geometry) a diagonal
对讲机	dui	ji	intercom; walkie-talkie
对讲电话	dui	hua	intercom
对话框	dui	kuang	dialog box (computing)
对话课	dui	ke	conversation class
对跖点	dui	dian	antipode
对酒当歌	dui	ge	lit. sing to accompany wine (idiom); fig. life is short, make merry while you can
对顶角	dui	jiao	angle to the vertical; angle (between two lines or two planes)
对马岛	dui	dao	Tsushima Island, between Japan and South Korea
对马海峡	dui	xia	Tsushima Strait, between Japan and South Korea
寻乌县	xun	xian	Xunwu, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
寻事生非	xun	fei	to look for trouble
寻呼机	xun	ji	pager; beeper
寻回犬	xun	quan	retriever (dog breed group)
寻开心	xun	xin	to make fun of; to seek diversion
寻根溯源	xun	yuan	see 追根溯源[zhui1 gen1 su4 yuan2]
寻根问底	xun	di	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
寻欢作乐	xun	le	pleasure seeking (idiom); life of dissipation
寻水术	xun	shu	dowsing
寻甸县	xun	xian	see 尋甸回族彝族自治縣|寻甸回族彝族自治县[Xun2 dian4 Hui2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
寻甸回族彝族自治县	xun	xian	Xundian Hui and Yi Autonomous County, in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
寻短见	xun	jian	to commit suicide
寻花问柳	xun	liu	lit. to enjoy the beautiful spring scenery (idiom); fig. to frequent brothels; to sow one's wild oats
寻衅滋事罪	xun	zui	disorderly behavior (PRC law)
导入期	dao	qi	introductory phase or period
导出值	dao	zhi	value deduced by calculation; derived value
导出范畴	dao	chou	(math.) derived category
导函数	dao	shu	derived function; derivative f' of a function f
导尿管	dao	guan	urinary catheter
导流板	dao	ban	spoiler (automotive)
导液管	dao	guan	(medicine) catheter
导火索	dao	suo	fuse (for explosive)
导火线	dao	xian	fuse (for explosives); (fig.) proximate cause; the last straw
导热性	dao	xing	heat conduction
导热膏	dao	gao	thermal grease
导电性	dao	xing	conductivity (elec.)
导盲犬	dao	quan	guide dog (for the blind); Seeing Eye dog
导盲砖	dao	zhuan	(Tw) tactile paving tile
导盲道	dao	dao	(Tw) path for the visually impaired (made with tactile paving)
导管组织	dao	zhi	vascular tissue
导航员	dao	yuan	navigator (on a plane or boat)
寿光市	shou	shi	Shouguang, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
寿命不长	shou	chang	one's days are numbered; not to have long to live (often fig.)
寿喜烧	shou	shao	sukiyaki
寿宁县	shou	xian	Shouning, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
寿星公	shou	gong	God of Longevity
寿桃包	shou	bao	longevity peach bun; birthday peach bun
寿比南山	shou	shan	Live as long as the Zhongnan Mountains! (idiom); Long may you live!
寿王坟	shou	fen	Shouwangfen town, in Chengde 承德市[Cheng2 de2 shi4], Hebei
寿终正寝	shou	qin	to die of old age; to die in one's bed at a ripe old age; (fig.) (of a structure or machine etc) to come to the end of its life
寿阳县	shou	xian	Shouyang, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
封丘县	feng	xian	Fengqiu, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
封口费	feng	fei	hush money
封妻荫子	feng	zi	(idiom) to bestow a title on the wife of a deserving official and make his son heir to his titles
封官许愿	feng	yuan	to offer official positions and material benefits in order to buy people's allegiance
封山育林	feng	lin	to restrict access to a mountainous area to promote natural forest regeneration
封底里	feng	li	inside back cover
封建主	feng	zhu	feudal ruler
封建主义	feng	yi	feudalism
封建制度	feng	du	feudalism
封建思想	feng	xiang	feudal way of thinking
封建时代	feng	dai	feudal times
封建社会	feng	hui	feudal society
封开县	feng	xian	Fengkai, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
封斋节	feng	jie	Lent
封檐板	feng	ban	barge board; weather board; eaves board (construction)
封沙育林	feng	lin	to restrict access to a sandy area to promote natural forest regeneration
封河期	feng	qi	freezing over of river in winter
封神榜	feng	bang	Investiture of the Gods, major Ming dynasty vernacular novel of mythology and fantasy, very loosely based on King Wu of Zhou's 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] overthrow of the Shang, subsequent material for opera, film, TV series, computer games etc
封神演义	feng	yi	Investiture of the Gods, major Ming dynasty vernacular novel of mythology and fantasy, very loosely based on King Wu of Zhou's 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] overthrow of the Shang, subsequent material for opera, film, TV series, computer games etc
封锁线	feng	xian	blockade line; cordon; CL:道[dao4]
封闭性	feng	xing	closed; encapsulated
封顶仪式	feng	shi	ceremony of capping the roof (to mark the completion of a building project)
射击学	she	xue	ballistics
射影几何	she	he	projective geometry
射影变换	she	huan	a projective transformation
射手座	she	zuo	Sagittarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac); popular variant of 人馬座|人马座[Ren2 ma3 zuo4]
射洪市	she	shi	Shehong, a county-level city in Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
射电望远镜	she	jing	radio telescope
射精管	she	guan	ejaculatory duct
射钉枪	she	qiang	nail gun; stud gun
射阳县	she	xian	Sheyang, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
射雕英雄传	she	zhuan	Legend of the Condor Heroes, wuxia (武俠|武侠[wu3 xia2], martial arts chivalry) novel by Jin Yong 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] and its screen adaptations
射频噪声	she	sheng	radio frequency noise
射频干扰	she	rao	radio interference; RF interference
射频识别	she	bie	radio-frequency identification (RFID)
射频调谐器	she	qi	RF tuner
将乐县	jiang	xian	Jiangle, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
将今论古	jiang	gu	to observe the present to study the past
将伯之助	qiang	zhu	assistance that one gets from another
将信将疑	jiang	yi	see 半信半疑[ban4 xin4 ban4 yi2]
将军肚	jiang	du	potbelly
将军肚子	jiang	zi	beer belly (complimentary)
将功折罪	jiang	zui	see 將功贖罪|将功赎罪[jiang1 gong1 shu2 zui4]
将功补过	jiang	guo	to make up for one's faults by doing good deeds (idiom)
将功赎罪	jiang	zui	to atone for one's crimes by meritorious acts
将勤补拙	jiang	zhuo	(idiom) to compensate for lack of ability with hard work
将心比心	jiang	xin	to put oneself in sb else's shoes (idiom)
将计就计	jiang	ji	to beat sb at their own game (idiom)
将错就错	jiang	cuo	lit. if it's wrong, it's wrong (idiom); to make the best after a mistake; to accept an error and adapt to it; to muddle through
尉氏县	wei	xian	Weishi, a county in Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
尉犁县	yu	xian	Yuli, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
尉缭子	wei	zi	Wei Liaozi, one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China 武經七書|武经七书[Wu3 jing1 Qi1 shu1], possibly written by Wei Liao 尉繚|尉缭[Wei4 Liao2] during the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
尉迟恭	yu	gong	General Yuchi Gong (585-658), famous military man instrumental in founding the Tang dynasty
尊亲属	zun	shu	(law) elder relatives; relatives of a senior generation such as parents, uncles or grandparents
尊师贵道	zun	dao	to revere the master and his teaching
尊老爱幼	zun	you	respect the old and cherish the young
尊贤使能	zun	neng	to respect talent and make use of ability (Mencius)
尊贤爱物	zun	wu	to honor the wise and love the people; respecting noble talent while protecting the common people
小三劝退师	xiao	shi	consultant who breaks up sb's extramarital relationship for a fee
小三和弦	xiao	xian	minor triad la-do-mi
小三度	xiao	du	minor third (musical interval)
小不忍则乱大谋	xiao	mou	(idiom) great plans can be ruined by just a touch of impatience
小不点	xiao	dian	tiny; very small; tiny thing
小丑鱼	xiao	yu	clownfish; anemonefish
小两口	xiao	kou	(coll.) young married couple
小两口儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小兩口|小两口[xiao3 liang3 kou3]
小九九	xiao	jiu	multiplication tables; (fig.) plan; scheme
小书签	xiao	qian	bookmarklet (computing)
小事一桩	xiao	zhuang	trivial matter; a piece of cake
小云雀	xiao	que	(bird species of China) oriental skylark (Alauda gulgula)
小亚细亚	xiao	ya	Asia Minor; Anatolia
小人书	xiao	shu	children's picture story book; CL:本[ben3]
小人得志	xiao	zhi	lit. a vile character flourishes (idiom); fig. an inferior person gets into a position of power, becoming conceited and arrogant
小人物	xiao	wu	nonentity; a nobody
小人精	xiao	jing	exceptionally bright kid; child prodigy
小仙女	xiao	nv	girl fairy; beautiful girl or young woman; (neologism) (slang) irrational and egocentric young woman
小仙鹟	xiao	weng	(bird species of China) small niltava (Niltava macgrigoriae)
小企业	xiao	ye	small enterprise
小伙儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小伙[xiao3 huo3]
小伙子	xiao	zi	(coll.) young man; young fellow; lad
小作怡情大作伤身	xiao	shen	an occasional display of histrionics can add a playful element to a relationship, but overdoing it can lead to a breakup (admonishment derived from the saying 小酌怡情，大酌傷身|小酌怡情，大酌伤身[xiao3 zhuo2 yi2 qing2 , da4 zhuo2 shang1 shen1])
小便器	xiao	qi	urinal
小便宜	xiao	yi	petty advantage; small gains
小便斗	xiao	dou	urinal
小便池	xiao	chi	urinal
小偷儿	xiao	r	erhua form of 小偷[xiao3 tou1]
小偷小摸	xiao	mo	to engage in petty theft
小儿科	xiao	ke	pediatrics; pediatric (department); sth of little importance
小儿经	xiao	jing	Xiao'erjing, refers to the use of the Arabic alphabet to write Chinese
小儿软骨病	xiao	bing	(medicine) rickets
小儿麻痹	xiao	bi	polio (poliomyelitis)
小儿麻痹病毒	xiao	du	poliovirus
小儿麻痹症	xiao	zheng	poliomyelitis; infantile paralysis
小公主	xiao	zhu	lit. little princess; fig. spoiled girl; female version of 小皇帝[xiao3 huang2 di4]
小公共	xiao	gong	mini bus (used for public transportation)
小册子	xiao	zi	booklet; pamphlet; leaflet
小写字母	xiao	mu	lowercase (letters)
小军舰鸟	xiao	niao	(bird species of China) great frigatebird (Fregata minor)
小冲突	xiao	tu	skirmish; clash; dispute
小凤头燕鸥	xiao	ou	(bird species of China) lesser crested tern (Thalasseus bengalensis)
小刀会	xiao	hui	Dagger Society, anti-Qing secret society who mounted an unsuccessful rebellion in 1855
小别胜新婚	xiao	hun	reunion after an absence is sweeter than being newlyweds (idiom); absence makes the heart grow fonder
小动作	xiao	zuo	bad habit (e.g. nose-picking); petty maneuver; dirty trick
小区广播	xiao	bo	(telecommunications) cell broadcast
小升初	xiao	chu	progression from elementary school to junior high (abbr. for 小學生升入初中生|小学生升入初中生[xiao3 xue2 sheng1 sheng1 ru4 chu1 zhong1 sheng1])
小卖部	xiao	bu	kiosk; snack counter; retail department or section inside a larger business
小发财	xiao	cai	(coll.) (Tw) mini truck; Kei truck
小叔子	xiao	zi	(coll.) husband's younger brother
小可爱	xiao	ai	cutie; sweetie; (Tw) camisole (women's garment)
小吃店	xiao	dian	snack bar; lunch room; CL:家[jia1]
小同乡	xiao	xiang	person from the same county
小吞噬细胞	xiao	bao	microphage (a type of white blood cell)
小哥哥	xiao	ge	little boy who is older than another young child (e.g. his playmate); (neologism c. 2017) (slang) amiable form of address for a young man of about one's own age or a little older
小商贩	xiao	fan	small trader; peddler
小嘴乌鸦	xiao	ya	(bird species of China) carrion crow (Corvus corone)
小嘴鸻	xiao	heng	(bird species of China) Eurasian dotterel (Eudromias morinellus)
小团体主义	xiao	yi	cliquism; small-group mentality
小型企业	xiao	ye	small business
小型巴士	xiao	shi	minibus; microbus
小型柜橱	xiao	chu	cabinet
小型核武器	xiao	qi	mini-nuke
小型汽车	xiao	che	compact car
小型货车	xiao	che	light van
小型车	xiao	che	compact car
小夜曲	xiao	qu	serenade
小夜班	xiao	ban	evening shift; early night shift
小天鹅	xiao	e	Little Swan (PRC appliance brand)
小太太	xiao	tai	concubine; mistress
小太平鸟	xiao	niao	(bird species of China) Japanese waxwing (Bombycilla japonica)
小太阳	xiao	yang	parabolic heater; heat dish
小女人	xiao	ren	dainty and delicate girl; concubine
小奶狗	xiao	gou	(slang) naive, clingy, emotionally dependent, cute young guy (type of boyfriend)
小妖精	xiao	jing	goblin; hussy; floozy
小妹妹	xiao	mei	little sister; little girl; (coll.) vulva
小姐姐	xiao	jie	little girl who is older than another young child (e.g. her playmate); (neologism c. 2017) (slang) young lady (amiable form of address for a young woman of about one's own age or a little older)
小姑子	xiao	zi	(coll.) husband's younger sister; sister-in-law
小姨子	xiao	zi	(coll.) wife's younger sister; sister-in-law (term not used to directly address her)
小娃娃	xiao	wa	baby
小婊砸	xiao	za	(slang) little biyatch (variation of 小婊子)
小媳妇	xiao	fu	young married woman; mistress; (fig.) punching bag
小学生	xiao	sheng	primary school student; schoolchild; CL:個|个[ge4],名[ming2]
小学而大遗	xiao	yi	to concentrate on trivial points while neglecting the main problem (idiom)
小孩儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小孩[xiao3 hai2]
小孩哥	xiao	ge	(slang) young boy who displays skills, maturity, or coolness beyond his age
小孩堤防	xiao	fang	Kinderdijk, village in the Netherlands with a large network of windmills attracting many tourists
小孩姐	xiao	jie	(slang) young girl who displays skills, maturity, or coolness beyond her age
小孩子	xiao	zi	child
小家子气	xiao	qi	petty; small-minded
小家碧玉	xiao	yu	pretty daughter in a humble family
小家鼠	xiao	shu	house mouse
小寿星	xiao	xing	child whose birthday is being celebrated; birthday boy; birthday girl
小小说	xiao	shuo	flash fiction
小屁孩	xiao	hai	kid; youngster; (derog.) brat
小岩洞	xiao	dong	grotto
小巧玲珑	xiao	long	(idiom) dainty; delicate; exquisite
小巫见大巫	xiao	wu	lit. minor magician in the presence of a great one (idiom); fig. to pale into insignificance by comparison
小年夜	xiao	ye	(coll.) the night before lunisolar New Year's Eve; (Tw) the night before New Year's Eve (either lunisolar or Gregorian); (old) Little New Year's Eve (the 23rd or 24th of the 12th lunisolar month, when people offer sacrifices to the kitchen god)
小年轻	xiao	qing	(coll.) young person; youngster
小广播	xiao	bo	grapevine; gossip; to spread rumors
小店区	xiao	qu	Xiaodian, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
小康社会	xiao	hui	society in which the material needs of most citizens are adequately met
小弟弟	xiao	di	little brother; little boy; (coll.) penis
小心地滑	xiao	hua	(used on signs) caution – wet floor (lit. "be careful, the floor is slippery")
小心眼	xiao	yan	narrow-minded; petty
小心眼儿	xiao	r	small-minded; petty; narrow-minded
小心翼翼	xiao	yi	(idiom) cautious; careful; prudent
小心谨慎	xiao	shen	cautious and timid (idiom); prudent; careful
小惩大诫	xiao	jie	lit. to punish a little to prevent a lot (idiom); to criticize former mistakes firmly to prevent large scale repetition
小意思	xiao	si	small token; mere trifle (used of one's gifts)
小扁豆	xiao	dou	lentil
小手小脚	xiao	jiao	mean; stingy; to be lacking in boldness
小打小闹	xiao	nao	small-scale
小抄儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小抄[xiao3 chao1]
小折刀	xiao	dao	pocketknife; penknife
小拇指	xiao	zhi	little finger; pinkie
小括号	xiao	hao	round brackets; parentheses ( )
小提琴	xiao	qin	fiddle; violin
小提琴手	xiao	shou	violinist; fiddler
小插曲	xiao	qu	episode; brief interlude
小摊儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小攤|小摊[xiao3 tan1]
小支气管	xiao	guan	bronchiole
小改改	xiao	gai	(Internet slang) young lady (Cantonese-influenced alternative to 小姐姐[xiao3 jie3 jie5])
小数点	xiao	dian	decimal point
小斑啄木鸟	xiao	niao	(bird species of China) lesser spotted woodpecker (Dryobates minor)
小斑姬鹟	xiao	weng	(bird species of China) little pied flycatcher (Ficedula westermanni)
小斑点	xiao	dian	speckle
小日子	xiao	zi	simple life; (Internet slang) euphemistic substitute for 日本[Ri4 ben3] or 日本人[Ri4 ben3 ren2]
小日本	xiao	ben	(derog.) Japanese person; Jap
小日本儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小日本[xiao3 Ri4 ben3]
小时了了大未必佳	xiao	jia	being bright at an early age does not necessarily bring success upon growing up (proverb)
小时候	xiao	hou	in one's childhood
小时候儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小時候|小时候[xiao3 shi2 hou5]
小时工	xiao	gong	hourly worker; hourly job
小星头啄木鸟	xiao	niao	(bird species of China) Japanese pygmy woodpecker (Yungipicus kizuki)
小昭寺	xiao	si	Ramoche Temple, Lhasa
小朋友	xiao	you	child; kid (used to refer to a child, or by an adult to address a child, or, in Taiwan, to refer to sb's own child)
小本生意	xiao	yi	small business
小杓鹬	xiao	yu	(bird species of China) little curlew (Numenius minutus)
小杜鹃	xiao	juan	(bird species of China) lesser cuckoo (Cuculus poliocephalus)
小松糕	xiao	gao	muffin
小松菜	xiao	cai	komatsuna, aka Japanese mustard spinach, a variety of Brassica rapa
小标题	xiao	ti	subheading
小树林	xiao	lin	grove
小桥流水	xiao	shui	a small bridge over a flowing stream
小步舞曲	xiao	qu	minuet
小段子	xiao	zi	short paragraph; news article
小毛头	xiao	tou	(coll.) new-born baby; young boy
小气候	xiao	hou	microclimate; fig. local situation
小气鬼	xiao	gui	miser; penny-pincher
小池百合子	xiao	zi	KOIKE Yuriko (1952-), Japanese LDP politician, minister of defense during 2008
小汤山	xiao	shan	Xiaotangshan town in Beijing municipality
小汽车	xiao	che	compact car
小油菜	xiao	cai	a type of rapeseed plant (Brassica rapa) that yields a leafy green vegetable similar to baby bok choy
小泉纯一郎	xiao	lang	KOIZUMI Jun'ichirō (1942-), Japanese LDP politician, prime minister 2001-2006
小洞不补大洞吃苦	xiao	ku	A small hole not plugged will make you suffer a big hole (idiom); a stitch in time saves nine
小淘气	xiao	qi	Rogue, Marvel Comics superhero
小混混	xiao	hun	hooligan; rogue; a good-for-nothing
小清新	xiao	xin	hipster
小渊惠三	xiao	san	Obuchi Keizo (1937-2000), Japanese politician, prime minister 1998-2000
小港区	xiao	qu	Xiaogang or Hsiaokang district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
小滨鹬	xiao	yu	(bird species of China) little stint (Calidris minuta)
小灰山椒鸟	xiao	niao	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's minivet (Pericrocotus cantonensis)
小灵通	xiao	tong	Personal Handy-phone System (PHS), mobile network system operating in China 1998-2013, branded "Little Smart"
小熊座	xiao	zuo	Ursa Minor (constellation)
小熊猫	xiao	mao	lesser panda (Ailurus fulgens); red panda
小熊维尼	xiao	ni	Winnie-the-Pooh (bear character in children's stories by A. A. Milne adapted by Disney)
小燕尾	xiao	wei	(bird species of China) little forktail (Enicurus scouleri)
小牛肉	xiao	rou	veal
小犬座	xiao	zuo	Canis Minor (constellation)
小狮座	xiao	zuo	Leo Minor (constellation)
小玩意	xiao	yi	gadget; widget (small item of software)
小生产	xiao	chan	small-scale production
小田鸡	xiao	ji	(bird species of China) Baillon's crake (Zapornia pusilla)
小电影	xiao	ying	(slang) adult movie; pornographic film
小电驴	xiao	lv	(coll.) electric scooter; electric moped; (dialect) scooter
小畑健	xiao	jian	OBATA Takeshi, manga artist, illustrator of cult series Death Note 死亡筆記|死亡笔记[si3 wang2 bi3 ji4]
小番茄	xiao	qie	cherry tomato
小白兔	xiao	tu	small white rabbit; (fig.) innocent and naive person; (fig.) (slang) breast
小白脸	xiao	lian	attractive young man (usually derog.); pretty boy; gigolo
小白脸儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小白臉|小白脸[xiao3 bai2 lian3]
小白腰雨燕	xiao	yan	(bird species of China) house swift (Apus nipalensis)
小白菜	xiao	cai	bok choy (Brassica rapa subsp. chinensis); CL:棵[ke1]
小白额雁	xiao	yan	(bird species of China) lesser white-fronted goose (Anser erythropus)
小白鼠	xiao	shu	white mouse; lab mouse; lab rat; (fig.) human guinea pig
小百科全书	xiao	shu	micropedia
小皇帝	xiao	di	child emperor; (fig.) spoiled child; spoiled boy
小盘尾	xiao	wei	(bird species of China) lesser racket-tailed drongo (Dicrurus remifer)
小眼角	xiao	jiao	outer corner of the eye
小确幸	xiao	xing	sth small that one can find pleasure in (e.g. a cold beer after a hard day or a serendipitous find in a second-hand store)
小祖宗	xiao	zong	brat; little devil
小笔电	xiao	dian	mini laptop or notebook (computer); netbook; CL:臺|台[tai2],部[bu4]
小笼包	xiao	bao	steamed dumpling
小笼汤包	xiao	bao	steamed soup dumpling
小算盘	xiao	pan	lit. small abacus; fig. selfish calculations; bean-counting
小米椒	xiao	jiao	same as 朝天椒[chao2 tian1 jiao1]
小米辣	xiao	la	xiaomila, a hot chili pepper cultivar (Capsicum frutescens)
小粉红	xiao	hong	young Chinese cyber-nationalists
小精灵	xiao	ling	elf
小红书	xiao	shu	REDnote (Chinese social networking platform); (historical) Little Red Book, nickname for 毛主席語錄|毛主席语录[Mao2 zhu3 xi2 Yu3 lu4]
小红帽	xiao	mao	Little Red Riding Hood
小红莓	xiao	mei	cranberry
小红萝卜	xiao	bo	small red radish
小组委员会	xiao	hui	subcommittee
小组赛	xiao	sai	(sports) group stage; group-stage match
小绒鸭	xiao	ya	(bird species of China) Steller's eider (Polysticta stelleri)
小绿人	xiao	ren	(Tw) animated green pedestrian crossing signal figure
小羊驼	xiao	tuo	(zoology) vicuña
小美洲鸵	xiao	tuo	(ornithology) lesser rhea; Darwin's rhea (Rhea pennata)
小羚羊	xiao	yang	gazelle
小老婆	xiao	po	concubine; mistress; (dialect) woman
小老鼠	xiao	shu	@; at symbol
小聪明	xiao	ming	clever-clever; clever in trivial matters; sharp but petty-minded
小肚鸡肠	xiao	chang	lit. small belly, chicken's gut (idiom); narrow-minded; petty
小胖爪	xiao	zhua	(coll.) hand
小脏鬼	xiao	gui	dirty little devil (affectionate, of child)
小腿肚	xiao	du	calf (of the leg)
小舅子	xiao	zi	(coll.) wife's younger brother
小节线	xiao	xian	(music) bar line
小花远志	xiao	zhi	small-flowered milkwort (Polygala arvensis Willd. or P. telephioides), with roots used in Chinese medicine
小苇鳽	xiao	jian	(bird species of China) little bittern (Ixobrychus minutus)
小苏打	xiao	da	baking soda; sodium bicarbonate; Taiwan pr. [xiao3su1da3]
小范围	xiao	wei	small-scale; local; to a limited extent
小茴香	xiao	xiang	fennel; fennel seed
小菜一碟	xiao	die	a small appetizer; a piece of cake; very easy (idiom)
小菜儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小菜[xiao3 cai4]
小萝卜头	xiao	tou	(coll.) kid; little tyke
小葵花凤头鹦鹉	xiao	wu	(bird species of China) yellow-crested cockatoo (Cacatua sulphurea)
小虾米	xiao	mi	shrimp; fig. small fry; minor player
小蛮腰	xiao	yao	slim feminine waist; willow waist (from the name of a Tang dynasty woman Xiao Man, famed for her slender waist)
小蜜蜂	xiao	feng	honeybee; (fig.) industrious person (esp. one who shuttles back and forth); voice booster (microphone headset with a wearable speaker)
小蝗莺	xiao	ying	(bird species of China) Pallas's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes certhiola)
小行星	xiao	xing	asteroid; minor planet
小行星带	xiao	dai	asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter
小袋鼠	xiao	shu	wallaby; pademelon
小试牛刀	xiao	dao	to give a small demonstration of one's impressive skills (idiom)
小说家	xiao	jia	School of Minor-talks, one of the Hundred Schools of Thought 諸子百家|诸子百家[zhu1 zi3 bai3 jia1] during the Warring States Period (475-221 BC)
小豆蔻	xiao	kou	Indian cardamom (Amomum cardamomum)
小货车	xiao	che	small truck; light truck
小资产阶级	xiao	ji	petty bourgeois
小赤壁	xiao	bi	Little Red Cliff, nickname of Bitan 碧潭[Bi4 tan2], Xindian, Taibei county, Taiwan
小轮车	xiao	che	BMX (bike); cycling BMX (sport)
小轿车	xiao	che	(automobile) sedan; car
小辈子	xiao	zi	(Sichuan dialect) member of the younger generation
小辫儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 小辮|小辫[xiao3 bian4]
小辫子	xiao	zi	pigtail; (fig.) a shortcoming or evidence of wrongdoing that can be seized upon by others
小道具	xiao	ju	(theater) hand prop (wine glass, pistol etc)
小道新闻	xiao	wen	news from the grapevine
小道消息	xiao	xi	hearsay; gossip
小酒馆	xiao	guan	bistro
小里小气	xiao	qi	stingy; petty
小野不由美	xiao	mei	Ono Fuyumi (1960-), Japanese novelist
小金县	xiao	xian	Xiaojin, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
小金库	xiao	ku	supplementary cash reserve; private fund; private hoard
小钢炮	xiao	pao	(coll.) piece of light artillery such as a mortar; (fig.) person who speaks boldly and frankly; hot hatch (car)
小钢珠	xiao	zhu	pachinko
小铲子	xiao	zi	trowel
小除夕	xiao	xi	the day before New Year's Eve
小雁塔	xiao	ta	Small Wild Goose Pagoda in Xi'an
小集团	xiao	tuan	faction; clique
小雨伞	xiao	san	(slang) condom
小青年	xiao	nian	young person; youngster
小青脚鹬	xiao	yu	(bird species of China) Nordmann's greenshank (Tringa guttifer)
小面包	xiao	bao	bread roll; bun
小题大作	xiao	zuo	variant of 小題大做|小题大做[xiao3 ti2 da4 zuo4]
小题大做	xiao	zuo	to make a big fuss over a minor issue (idiom)
小额融资	xiao	zi	microfinance
小食中心	xiao	xin	(Malaysia) food court
小饭桌	xiao	zhuo	dining room for young schoolchildren unable to go home for lunch
小饭馆	xiao	guan	tearoom; canteen; cafeteria
小马座	xiao	zuo	Equuleus (constellation)
小鲜肉	xiao	rou	(coll.) teen idol (male)
小鳞胸鹪鹛	xiao	mei	(bird species of China) pygmy cupwing; pygmy wren-babbler (Pnoepyga pusilla)
小鸟依人	xiao	ren	lit. like a little bird relying on people (idiom); fig. cute and helpless-looking
小鸟球	xiao	qiu	(golf) birdie
小鸟胃	xiao	wei	(fig.) small appetite; sb with a small appetite
小鸡鸡	xiao	ji	penis (child's word)
小鸦鹃	xiao	juan	(bird species of China) lesser coucal (Centropus bengalensis)
小鹃鸠	xiao	jiu	(bird species of China) little cuckoo-dove (Macropygia ruficeps)
小鹰号	xiao	hao	Kitty Hawk (US aircraft carrier)
小鹿乱撞	xiao	zhuang	fig. restless, because of fear or strong emotions
小麦胚芽	xiao	ya	wheat germ
小黄瓜	xiao	gua	gherkin
小黄脚鹬	xiao	yu	(bird species of China) lesser yellowlegs (Tringa flavipes)
小黄车	xiao	che	yellow bicycle (nickname for bicycles provided by the Ofo bike-sharing company, active 2014–2020)
小黑领噪鹛	xiao	mei	(bird species of China) lesser necklaced laughingthrush (Garrulax monileger)
小龙虾	xiao	xia	crayfish; (esp.) red swamp crayfish 克氏原螯蝦|克氏原螯虾[Ke4 shi4 yuan2 ao2 xia1]
少不了	shao	liao	cannot do without; to be unavoidable; are bound to be many
少不得	shao	de	cannot be avoided; cannot do without
少不更事	shao	shi	(idiom) young and inexperienced; wet behind the ears
少不经事	shao	shi	see 少不更事[shao4 bu4 geng1 shi4]
少东家	shao	jia	boss's son
少之又少	shao	shao	very few; very little
少儿不宜	shao	yi	not suitable for children
少先队	shao	dui	Young Pioneers of China, abbr. for 少年先鋒隊|少年先锋队[Shao4 nian2 Xian1 feng1 dui4]
少块肉	shao	rou	(coll.) (usually used in the negative) (can't) hurt (to do sth); (won't) hurt (to do sth)
少壮派	shao	pai	young guard; young and vigorous group with new ideas; new wave
少女峰	shao	feng	Jungfrau, peak in Switzerland
少奶奶	shao	nai	young lady of the house; wife of the young master
少子化	shao	hua	declining birthrate (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 少子化 "shoushika")
少安无躁	shao	zao	variant of 少安毋躁[shao3 an1 wu2 zao4]
少安毋躁	shao	zao	keep calm, don't get excited; don't be impatient
少年之家	shao	jia	children's center; children's club
少年人	shao	ren	(Tw) young people; youngster
少年先锋队	shao	dui	Young Pioneers of China (primary school league, a preparation for Communist Youth League); abbr. to 少先隊|少先队
少年夫妻老来伴	shao	ban	husband and wife in youth, companions in old age
少年宫	shao	gong	Children's Palace, institution where children can take part in various extracurricular activities
少年犯	shao	fan	young criminal; juvenile delinquent
少年老成	shao	cheng	accomplished though young; lacking youthful vigor
少数族裔	shao	yi	ethnic minority
少数民族	shao	zu	ethnic minority
少数民族乡	shao	xiang	ethnic township (formal village level subdivision of PRC county)
少林寺	shao	si	Shaolin Temple, Buddhist monastery famous for its kung fu monks
少根筋	shao	jin	(coll.) dim-witted; foolish; absent-minded
少男少女	shao	nv	boys and girls; teenagers
少白头	shao	tou	to be prematurely gray; young person with graying hair
少管闲事	shao	shi	Mind your own business!; Don't interfere!
少见多怪	shao	guai	(lit.) a person who has seen little of the world will be astonished by certain things (idiom); (fig.) to be taken aback by sth because of one's lack of sophistication; naive; unworldly
少说为佳	shao	jia	Few words are best.; Brevity is the soul of wit.
少部分	shao	fen	a small proportion of; Taiwan pr. [shao3bu4fen4]
少阳病	shao	bing	name of disease in TCM
少阳经	shao	jing	lesser yang gallbladder meridian of the leg (one of the 12 principal meridians of TCM)
尔虞我诈	er	zha	lit. you hoodwink me and I cheat you (idiom); fig. each tries to outwit the other; deceit and treachery
尔诈我虞	er	yu	see 爾虞我詐|尔虞我诈[er3 yu2 wo3 zha4]
尖叫鸡	jian	ji	squeaky rubber chicken
尖吻鲈	jian	lu	barramundi or Asian sea bass (Lates calcarifer)
尖嘴鱼	jian	yu	Indo-Pacific wrasse (Gomphosus varius)
尖声啼哭	jian	ku	squeal
尖头鱥	jian	gui	Chinese minnow (Phoxinus oxycephalus)
尖子生	jian	sheng	top student
尖尾滨鹬	jian	yu	(bird species of China) sharp-tailed sandpiper (Calidris acuminata)
尖山区	jian	qu	Jianshan, a district of Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
尖扎县	jian	xian	Jainca, a county in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
尖括号	jian	hao	angle brackets < >
尖沙咀	jian	zui	Tsim Sha Tsui, urbanized area in Hong Kong
尖管面	jian	mian	penne pasta
尖草坪	jian	ping	see 尖草坪區|尖草坪区[Jian1 cao3 ping2 Qu1]
尖草坪区	jian	qu	Jiancaoping, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
尖酸刻薄	jian	bo	sharp and unkind (words)
尖锐化	jian	hua	to intensify; to become acute; to come to a head
尖锐批评	jian	ping	sharp criticism
尖锐湿疣	jian	you	genital wart; condyloma acuminatum
尖阁列岛	jian	dao	Senkaku Islands (Japanese name for the Diaoyu Islands 釣魚島|钓鱼岛[Diao4 yu2 Dao3]), also known as the Pinnacle Islands
尘埃落定	chen	ding	"Red Poppies", novel by 阿來|阿来[A1 lai2]
尚义县	shang	xian	Shangyi, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
尚书经	shang	jing	Book of History; a compendium of documents in various styles, making up the oldest extant texts of Chinese history, from legendary times down to the times of Confucius
尚书郎	shang	lang	ancient official title
尚志市	shang	shi	Shangzhi, a county-level city in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
尚慕杰	shang	jie	James Sasser (1936-), US Ambassador to China 1995-1999
尚方剑	shang	jian	imperial sword (giving bearer arbitrary powers); in fiction, Chinese version of 007's license to kill
尚方宝剑	shang	jian	variant of 尚方劍|尚方剑[shang4 fang1 jian4]; imperial sword (giving bearer arbitrary powers); in fiction, Chinese version of 007's license to kill
尚未解决	shang	jue	unsolved; as yet unsettled
尚比亚	shang	ya	Zambia (Tw)
尝尽心酸	chang	suan	to experience one's full share of sorrows (idiom)
尝试错误	chang	wu	to proceed by trial and error; to learn by making mistakes
尤克里里	you	li	ukulele (loanword)
尤其是	you	shi	especially; most of all; above all
尤利西斯	you	si	Ulysses (novel)
尤加利	you	li	eucalyptus (loanword)
尤卡坦	you	tan	Yucatan (Mexican province)
尤卡坦半岛	you	dao	Yucatan Peninsula (Mexico)
尤尔钦科	you	ke	Yurchenko (name); Natalia Yurchenko (1965-), Russian gymnast; Yurchenko, a type of jump-off for vaulting
尤文图斯	you	si	Juventus, Italian football team
尤溪县	you	xian	Youxi, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
尥蹶子	liao	zi	(of mules, horses etc) to kick backward; to kick with the hind legs; fig. to flare up in anger
尧都区	yao	qu	Yaodu, a district of Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
就业安定费	jiu	fei	Employment Stability Fee (Taiwan), a minimum monthly fee for employing foreign workers
就业服务	jiu	wu	employment service; job placement service; jobseeker assistance
就业机会	jiu	hui	employment opportunity; job opening
就业率	jiu	lv	employment rate
就事论事	jiu	shi	to discuss sth on its own merits; to judge the matter as it stands
就口杯盖	jiu	gai	cup lid with a sipping spout
就地取材	jiu	cai	to draw on local resources; using materials at hand
就地正法	jiu	fa	to execute on the spot (idiom); summary execution; to carry out the law on the spot
就是说	jiu	shuo	in other words; that is
就晚了	jiu	le	then it's too late (colloquial)
就职典礼	jiu	li	inauguration
就职演讲	jiu	jiang	inaugural lecture
就职演说	jiu	shuo	inaugural speech
尸位素餐	shi	can	to hold a sinecure (idiom)
尸体剖检	shi	jian	autopsy
尸体袋	shi	dai	body bag
尸体解剖	shi	pou	autopsy; postmortem
尸山血海	shi	hai	(lit.) mountains of corpses and oceans of blood (idiom); (fig.) a scene of wholesale slaughter
尸横遍野	shi	ye	(idiom) corpses are strewn across the field (typically after a battle)
尹潽善	yin	shan	Yun Poseon (1897-1990), South Korean Democratic party politician, mayor of Seoul from 1948, president 1960-1962
尺有所短寸有所长	chi	chang	lit. for some things a foot may be too short, and for the other an inch will suffice (proverb); fig. everyone has their strong and weak points; everything has its advantages and disadvantages
尺短寸长	chi	chang	abbr. for 尺有所短，寸有所長|尺有所短，寸有所长[chi3 you3 suo3 duan3 , cun4 you3 suo3 chang2]
尺蠖蛾	chi	e	moth in family Geometridae
尺规作图	chi	tu	ruler and compass construction (geometry)
尻门子	kao	zi	anus (rural coll.)
尼亚加拉瀑布	ni	bu	Niagara Falls
尼亚美	ni	mei	Niamey, capital of Niger
尼克松	ni	song	Richard Nixon (1913–1994), US president 1969–1974
尼克森	ni	sen	Nixon (name); Richard M Nixon (1913-1994), US president 1969-1974
尼加拉瀑布	ni	bu	Niagara Falls (Tw)
尼加拉瓜	ni	gua	Nicaragua
尼勒克	ni	ke	see 尼勒克縣|尼勒克县[Ni2 le4 ke4 Xian4]
尼勒克县	ni	xian	Nilka, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
尼厄丽德	ni	de	Nereids (Greek sea nymphs, fifty daughters of Nereus and Doris); Nereid, moon of Neptune
尼古丁	ni	ding	(loanword) nicotine
尼古西亚	ni	ya	Nicosia, capital of Cyprus (Tw)
尼哥底母	ni	mu	Nicodemus, prominent Jew of the time of Christ, mentioned in the Gospel of John
尼安德塔人	ni	ren	Neanderthal man
尼安德特人	ni	ren	Neanderthal man
尼尔森	ni	sen	Nielsen or Nelson (name)
尼尔逊	ni	xun	Nelson or Nillson (name); Horatio Nelson (1758-1805), British naval hero
尼布楚条约	ni	yue	Treaty of Nerchinsk (1689) between Qing China and Russia
尼布甲尼撒	ni	sa	Nebuchadnezzar
尼希米记	ni	ji	Book of Nehemiah
尼德兰	ni	lan	the Netherlands
尼散月	ni	yue	Nisan, the first month of the ecclesiastical year in the Jewish calendar
尼斯湖水怪	ni	guai	Loch Ness Monster
尼日利亚	ni	ya	Nigeria
尼日尔	ni	er	Niger (country in West Africa); Niger River, West Africa
尼日尔河	ni	he	Niger River of West Africa
尼木县	ni	xian	Nyêmo, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
尼格罗	ni	luo	negro (loanword)
尼泊尔	ni	er	Nepal
尼泊尔王国	ni	guo	Kingdom of Nepal
尼泊尔鹪鹛	ni	mei	(bird species of China) Nepal cupwing; immaculate cupwing; Nepal wren-babbler (Pnoepyga immaculata)
尼特族	ni	zu	(Tw) (neologism c. 2007) young person who is not studying, working or being trained for work (loanword from NEET: not in education, employment or training)
尼玛县	ni	xian	Nyima, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
尼科西亚	ni	ya	Nicosia, capital of Cyprus
尼米兹	ni	zi	Chester William Nimitz (1885-1966), US admiral
尼米兹号	ni	hao	Nimitz class, US nuclear-powered aircraft carrier, 8 in commission since 1975
尼罗河	ni	he	the Nile (river in northeastern Africa)
尼赫鲁	ni	lu	Jawaharlal Nehru (1889-1964), Indian politician, first prime minister 1947-1964
尼雅河	ni	he	Niya River in southern Xinjiang
尼龙搭扣	ni	kou	nylon buckle; velcro
尽义务	jin	wu	to fulfill one's duty; to work without asking for reward
尽人事	jin	shi	to do one's utmost; to do everything one can
尽人事听天命	jin	ming	(idiom) to do one's best and leave the rest to fate; to do everything within one's power, then accept whatever happens
尽人皆知	jin	zhi	known by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
尽力而为	jin	wei	to try one's utmost; to strive
尽可能	jin	neng	as far as possible; to the best of one's ability
尽善尽美	jin	mei	perfect (idiom); perfection; the best of all possible worlds; as good as it gets
尽地主之谊	jin	yi	to act as host; to do the honors
尽如人意	jin	yi	(idiom) to be everything one could wish for
尽心尽力	jin	li	making an all-out effort (idiom); to try one's heart out; to do one's utmost
尽心竭力	jin	li	to spare no effort (idiom); to do one's utmost
尽收眼底	jin	di	to take in the whole scene at once; to have a panoramic view
尽欢而散	jin	san	to disperse after a happy time (idiom); everyone enjoys themselves to the full then party breaks up
尽职尽责	jin	ze	responsible and diligent (idiom)
尽职调查	jin	cha	(law) due diligence
尽释前嫌	jin	xian	to forget former enmity (idiom)
尾大不掉	wei	diao	large tail obstructs action (idiom); bottom heavy; fig. rendered ineffective by subordinates
尾张国	wei	guo	Owari or Owari-no-kuni, Japanese fiefdom during 11th-15th century, current Aichi prefecture around Nagoya
尾水渠道	wei	dao	outflow channel
尾矿库	wei	ku	slag heap; dump of mining waste
尾羽龙	wei	long	caudipteryx (a feathered dinosaur)
尾闾骨	wei	gu	coccyx; tailbone
尿不湿	niao	shi	(coll.) disposable diaper
尿嘧啶	niao	ding	uracil nucleotide (U, pairs with adenine A 腺嘌呤 in RNA)
尿失禁	niao	jin	urinary incontinence
尿布疹	niao	zhen	diaper rash
尿毒症	niao	zheng	(medicine) uremia
尿盆儿	niao	r	erhua variant of 尿盆[niao4 pen2]
尿裤子	niao	zi	to wet one's pants
局中人	ju	ren	participant; protagonist; a player (in this affair)
局促一隅	ju	yu	to be cramped in a corner (idiom)
局促不安	ju	an	ill at ease; uncomfortable
局域网	ju	wang	local area network (LAN)
局外中立	ju	li	neutralism
局灶性	ju	xing	(medicine) focal; localized
局部作用域	ju	yu	(computing) local scope
局部性	ju	xing	local
局部麻醉	ju	zui	local anesthesia
局部麻醉剂	ju	ji	local anesthetic
局限于	ju	yu	to be limited to
局限性	ju	xing	limitations; (medicine) localized
局麻药	ju	yao	local anesthetic
屁墩儿	pi	r	(dialect) a fall on the buttocks
屁滚尿流	pi	liu	to piss one's pants in terror (idiom); scared witless
屁眼儿	pi	r	erhua variant of 屁眼[pi4 yan3]
屁股决定脑袋	pi	dai	lit. the butt governs the head (idiom); fig. where one stands depends on where one sits; one's views are shaped by one's circumstances
屁股眼	pi	yan	anus
屁股蛋	pi	dan	butt cheek; rump
屁股蹲儿	pi	r	(dialect) a fall on the buttocks; pratfall
屁颠屁颠	pi	dian	lit. jolting buttocks; (colloquial intensifier) groveling; eager
层出不穷	ceng	qiong	more and more emerge; innumerable succession; breeding like flies (idiom)
层出叠见	ceng	xian	see 層見疊出|层见叠出[ceng2 xian4 die2 chu1]
层压式推销	ceng	xiao	pyramid scheme
层层传达	ceng	da	to send down the line
层层加码	ceng	ma	to increase bit by bit; repeated increments
层峦叠嶂	ceng	zhang	range upon range of mountains (idiom)
层次分明	ceng	ming	layered; structured; made up of distinct parts
层积云	ceng	yun	stratocumulus cloud
层见叠出	ceng	chu	(idiom) to occur frequently; to occur repeatedly
层见迭出	ceng	chu	variant of 層見疊出|层见叠出[ceng2 xian4 die2 chu1]
屄样儿	bi	r	(vulgar, offensive) a person's repulsive appearance
居中对齐	ju	qi	centered alignment (typography)
居住于	ju	yu	to inhabit
居住地	ju	di	current address; place of residence
居住者	ju	zhe	inhabitant
居住证	ju	zheng	residence permit
居功自傲	ju	ao	satisfied with one's accomplishment and arrogant as a result (idiom); resting on one's laurels and despising others
居功至伟	ju	wei	see 厥功至偉|厥功至伟[jue2 gong1 zhi4 wei3]
居委会	ju	hui	neighbourhood committee
居安思危	ju	wei	to think of danger in times of safety; to be vigilant in peacetime (idiom)
居庸关	ju	guan	Juyongguan, frontier fortress on Great Wall north of Beijing, in Changping district 昌平區|昌平区[Chang1 ping2 qu1]
居心不良	ju	liang	to harbor evil intentions (idiom)
居心何在	ju	zai	What's (he) up to?; What's the motive behind all this?
居心叵测	ju	ce	harboring unfathomable motives (idiom)
居心险恶	ju	e	to have sinister motives
居无定所	ju	suo	to be without a fixed residence (idiom)
居民区	ju	qu	residential area; neighborhood
居民楼	ju	lou	apartment building; residential tower
居民消费价格指数	ju	shu	consumer price index CPI
居民点	ju	dian	residential area
居民点儿	ju	r	variant of 居民點|居民点[ju1 min2 dian3]
居留权	ju	quan	right of abode (law)
居留证	ju	zheng	residence permit
居礼夫人	ju	ren	variant of 居里夫人[Ju1 li3 fu1 ren5]
居酒屋	ju	wu	izakaya (a kind of traditional Japanese pub)
居里夫人	ju	ren	Maria Skłodowska-Curie or Marie Curie (1867–1934), Nobel laureate in both physics (1903) and chemistry (1911)
居高不下	ju	xia	(of prices, rates etc) to remain high
居高临下	ju	xia	lit. to be in a high location, overlooking the scene below (idiom); fig. to occupy a commanding position; to assume a haughty attitude
居鲁士	ju	shi	Cyrus (name)
居鲁士大帝	ju	di	Cyrus the Great (ca. 600-530 BC), the founder of the Persian Empire and the conqueror of Babylon
屈伦博赫	qu	he	Culemborg, city in the Netherlands
屈光度	qu	du	diopter
屈公病	qu	bing	chikungunya fever (Tw)
屈原祠	qu	ci	Qu Yuan memorial temple on the Miluo river 汨羅江|汨罗江 at Yueyang 岳陽市|岳阳市, Hunan
屈原纪念馆	qu	guan	Qu Yuan Memorial Hall in Zigui county 秭歸縣|秭归县[Zi3 gui1 Xian4], Hubei, built in 1982 and a major tourist attraction since then
屈头蛋	qu	dan	see 鴨仔蛋|鸭仔蛋[ya1 zi3 dan4]
屈尊俯就	qu	jiu	to condescend; condescending; patronizing
屈戌儿	qu	r	staple (used with a hasp)
屈打成招	qu	zhao	to obtain confessions under torture
屈折语	qu	yu	to inflect (in grammar); to decline; to conjugate
屈指一算	qu	suan	to count on one's fingers
屈指可数	qu	shu	(lit.) can be counted on one's fingers (idiom); (fig.) very few
屈膝礼	qu	li	curtsy
屋漏偏逢连夜雨	wu	yu	when it rains, it pours (idiom)
屋漏更遭连夜雨	wu	yu	when it rains, it pours (idiom)
屋面瓦	wu	wa	room tiles
屎壳郎	shi	lang	see 屎蚵螂[shi3 ke1 lang2]
屎蚵螂	shi	lang	dung beetle
屏东县	ping	xian	Pingtung County in south Taiwan
屏东市	ping	shi	Pingtung City in south Taiwan
屏南县	ping	xian	Pingnan, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
屏占比	ping	bi	screen-to-body ratio (of a smartphone etc)
屏山县	ping	xian	Pingshan, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
屏幕保护程序	ping	xu	screensaver
屏蔽罐	ping	guan	cask
屏边县	ping	xian	see 屏邊苗族自治縣|屏边苗族自治县[Ping2 bian1 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
屏边苗族自治县	ping	xian	Pingbian Miao Autonomous County, in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
展开图	zhan	tu	expanded view
展弦比	zhan	bi	(wing) aspect ratio (aerodynamics)
展翅高飞	zhan	fei	to spread one's wings and soar (idiom); to develop one's abilities freely
展览会	zhan	hui	exhibition; show
展览馆	zhan	guan	exhibition hall
展销会	zhan	hui	trade show; sales exhibition
屠妖节	tu	jie	Deepavali (Hindu festival)
屠宰场	tu	chang	slaughterhouse; abattoir
屠格涅夫	tu	fu	Ivan Sergeevich Turgenev (1818-1883), Russian novelist
屠毒笔墨	tu	mo	poisonous writing; disparaging writing; calumny
屡出狂言	lv	yan	repeated gaffes
屡劝不听	lv	ting	(idiom) refusing to listen to advice or remonstrance; incorrigible
屡战屡败	lv	bai	to suffer defeat in every battle (idiom)
屡教不改	lv	gai	lit. not to change, despite repeated admonition; incorrigible; unrepentant
屡禁不止	lv	zhi	to continue despite repeated prohibition (idiom)
屡禁不绝	lv	jue	to continue despite repeated prohibition (idiom)
屡见不鲜	lv	xian	a common occurrence (idiom)
屡试不爽	lv	shuang	well-tried; time-tested
屡败屡战	lv	zhan	to keep on fighting despite continual setbacks (idiom)
履历片	lv	pian	curriculum vitae (CV)
履历表	lv	biao	curriculum vitae (CV); resume
履约保证金	lv	jin	performance bond (international trade)
履舄交错	lv	cuo	lit. shoes and slippers muddled together (idiom); fig. many guests come and go; a lively party
履险如夷	lv	yi	lit. to make one's way through a dangerous pass as if walking on level ground (idiom); fig. to handle a crisis effortlessly
屯昌县	tun	xian	Tunchang County, Hainan
屯溪区	tun	qu	Tunxi, a district of Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
屯特大学	tun	xue	University of Twente
屯留区	tun	qu	Tunliu, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
山不转水转	shan	zhuan	(lit.) if the mountain won't move, the river will go around it (idiom); (fig.) there's always a way forward, even when faced with obstacles
山不转路转	shan	zhuan	(lit.) if the mountain won't move, the road will go around it (idiom); (fig.) there's always a way forward, even when faced with obstacles
山东半岛	shan	dao	Shandong Peninsula
山东大学	shan	xue	Shandong University
山东省	shan	sheng	Shandong Province, capital Jinan 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4] (short name 魯|鲁[Lu3])
山东科技大学	shan	xue	Shandong University of Science and Technology
山中圣训	shan	xun	the Sermon on the Mount
山丹丹	shan	dan	see 山丹[shan1 dan1]
山丹县	shan	xian	Shandan, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
山亭区	shan	qu	Shanting, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
山南市	shan	shi	Lhoka, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
山口洋	shan	yang	Singkawang city (Kalimantan, Indonesia)
山噪鹛	shan	mei	(bird species of China) plain laughingthrush (Pterorhinus davidi)
山地同胞	shan	bao	(dated) Taiwanese indigenous peoples; Taiwanese aborigine
山地自行车	shan	che	mountain bike
山地车	shan	che	mountain bike
山城区	shan	qu	Shancheng, a district of Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
山外有山天外有天	shan	tian	(idiom) however good sth is, there is always sth better; in the wider world there are people more talented than oneself
山奈钾	shan	jia	potassium cyanide KCN
山姆大叔	shan	shu	Uncle Sam
山寨机	shan	ji	knockoff cell phone; counterfeit phone
山寨货	shan	huo	a fake; imitation or counterfeit product
山峦重叠	shan	die	overlapping ranges of high mountains (idiom)
山嵛菜	shan	cai	variant of 山萮菜[shan1 yu2 cai4]
山斑鸠	shan	jiu	(bird species of China) oriental turtle dove (Streptopelia orientalis)
山旮旯	shan	la	recess in mountains
山明水秀	shan	xiu	lit. verdant hills and limpid water (idiom); fig. enchanting scenery
山本五十六	shan	liu	YAMAMOTO Isoroku (1884-1943), Japanese admiral
山本头	shan	tou	(Tw) "Yamamoto haircut", similar to a butch cut, but with even length (no tapering on the sides and back), said to be named after Admiral Yamamoto 山本五十六[Shan1 ben3 Wu3 shi2 liu4]
山核桃	shan	tao	hickory
山案座	shan	zuo	Mensa (constellation)
山梨酸钾	shan	jia	potassium sorbate, E202 (a food preservative)
山梨醇	shan	chun	sorbitol C6H14O6 (sugar substitute and mild laxative)
山椒鱼	shan	yu	Hynobius formosanus; Taiwan salamander
山楂糕	shan	gao	haw jelly, a sweet jelly popular in northern China, made from Chinese hawthorn fruit
山榄科	shan	ke	Sapotaceae (botany)
山毛榉	shan	ju	beech
山水画	shan	hua	landscape painting
山水诗	shan	shi	shanshui poetry, genre of Classical Chinese poetry
山沟沟	shan	gou	(coll.) remote valley; backwoods
山泥倾泻	shan	xie	a landslide
山海关	shan	guan	Shanhai Pass in Hebei, at the eastern terminus of the Ming dynasty Great Wall
山海关区	shan	qu	Shanhaiguan, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
山海经	shan	jing	Classic of Mountain and Sea, probably compiled c. 500 BC-200 BC, contains wide range of geography, mythology, witchcraft, popular customs etc
山清水秀	shan	xiu	lit. verdant hills and limpid water (idiom); fig. enchanting scenery
山珍海味	shan	wei	exotic delicacies; luxury foodstuff from distant locations
山珍海错	shan	cuo	rarities from the mountain and the sea (idiom); fig. a sumptuous spread of food delicacies
山瑞鳖	shan	bie	wattle-necked soft-shelled turtle (Palea steindachneri)
山皇鸠	shan	jiu	(bird species of China) mountain imperial pigeon (Ducula badia)
山盟海誓	shan	shi	to pledge undying love (idiom); oath of eternal love; to swear by all the Gods
山穷水尽	shan	jin	mountain and river exhausted (idiom); at the end of the line; nowhere to go
山羊座	shan	zuo	(Tw, HK) see 摩羯座[Mo2 jie2 zuo4]
山羊绒	shan	rong	cashmere
山羊胡子	shan	zi	goatee
山胡桃木	shan	mu	hickory
山茱萸	shan	yu	Japanese cornel (Cornus officinalis)
山茶花	shan	hua	camellia
山药蛋	shan	dan	(dialect) potato; (dialect) rube; yokel
山萮菜	shan	cai	wasabi
山蓝仙鹟	shan	weng	(bird species of China) hill blue flycatcher (Cyornis whitei)
山西兽	shan	shou	Shansitherium fuguensis (early giraffe)
山西大学	shan	xue	Shanxi University
山西省	shan	sheng	Shanxi Province, capital Taiyuan 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4] (short name 晉|晋[Jin4])
山谷市	shan	shi	The Valley, capital of Anguilla (a British Overseas Territory in the Caribbean)
山达基	shan	ji	Scientology
山道年	shan	nian	santonin (loanword)
山长水远	shan	yuan	(idiom) long and arduous journey
山阳区	shan	qu	Shanyang, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
山阳县	shan	xian	Shanyang, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
山阴县	shan	xian	Shanyin, a county in Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
山陬海澨	shan	shi	(idiom) remote and desolate area
山青水灵	shan	ling	scenic, with verdant hills and crystal-clear waters
山颓木坏	shan	huai	lit. the mountains crumble and the trees lie ruined; a great sage has died (idiom)
山高水长	shan	chang	high as the mountain and long as the river (idiom); fig. noble and far-reaching
山高水险	shan	xian	lit. the mountains are high and the torrents swift; to undertake an arduous task or journey (idiom)
山高海深	shan	shen	high as the mountain and deep as the sea (idiom); fig. infinite bounty
山鹡鸰	shan	ling	(bird species of China) forest wagtail (Dendronanthus indicus)
山鹪莺	shan	ying	(bird species of China) striped prinia (Prinia striata)
山麻雀	shan	que	(bird species of China) russet sparrow (Passer cinnamomeus)
岁不我与	sui	yu	Time and tide wait for no man (idiom)
岁岁平安	sui	an	May you have peace year after year (New Year's greeting)
岁月匆匆	sui	cong	the years pass swiftly
岁月如梭	sui	suo	time flies (idiom)
岁月如流	sui	liu	the passage of the years; the flow of time
岁月峥嵘	sui	rong	eventful years; momentous times
岁月流逝	sui	shi	as time goes by (idiom)
岁计余绌	sui	chu	annual budgetary surplus or deficit (accountancy)
岂有此理	qi	li	how can this be so? (idiom); preposterous; ridiculous; absurd
岌岌可危	ji	wei	imminent danger (idiom); approaching a crisis
岐山县	qi	xian	Qishan, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
岑巩县	cen	xian	Cengong, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
岑溪市	cen	shi	Cenxi, a county-level city in Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
岗仁波齐	gang	qi	Mt Gang Rinpoche in Tibet; also written 岡仁波齊|冈仁波齐
岗位培训	gang	xun	on-the-job training
岗位工资	gang	zi	standard salary for a specific job (contrasted with performance pay 績效工資|绩效工资[ji4 xiao4 gong1 zi1] or commission 提成[ti2 cheng2] etc)
岗位津贴	gang	tie	post allowance; job-specific subsidy
岗巴县	gang	xian	Kamba, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
岘首山	xian	shan	Mt Xianshou in Hubei
岚山区	lan	qu	Lanshan, a district of Rizhao City 日照市[Ri4 zhao4 Shi4], Shandong
岚皋县	lan	xian	Langao, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
岛国动作片	dao	pian	euphemism for Japanese porn movie
岛盖部	dao	bu	pars perculairs
岢岚县	ke	xian	Kelan, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
岩仓使节团	yan	tuan	the Iwakura mission (Japanese diplomatic and exploratory mission to US and Europe of 1871)
岩土体	yan	ti	gneiss
岩沙海葵毒素	yan	su	palytoxin
岩流圈	yan	quan	(geology) asthenosphere
岩浆岩	yan	yan	igneous rock
岩浆流	yan	liu	lava flow
岩滨鹬	yan	yu	(bird species of China) rock sandpiper (Calidris ptilocnemis)
岩石圈	yan	quan	(geology) lithosphere
岩石学	yan	xue	petrology; lithology; study of rocks
岩石层	yan	ceng	rock stratum
岩雷鸟	yan	niao	(bird species of China) rock ptarmigan (Lagopus muta)
岫岩县	xiu	xian	see 岫岩滿族自治縣|岫岩满族自治县[Xiu4 yan2 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
岫岩满族县	xiu	xian	see 岫岩滿族自治縣|岫岩满族自治县[Xiu4 yan2 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
岫岩满族自治县	xiu	xian	Xiuyan Manchu Autonomous County, in Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
岭东区	ling	qu	Lingdong, a district of Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
岱山县	dai	xian	Daishan, a county in Zhoushan City 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 Shi4], Zhejiang
岱岳区	dai	qu	Daiyue, a district of Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
岳塘区	yue	qu	Yuetang, a district of Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
岳得尔歌	yue	ge	to yodel
岳普湖	yue	hu	see 岳普湖縣|岳普湖县[Yue4 pu3 hu2 Xian4]
岳普湖县	yue	xian	Yopurga, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
岳池县	yue	xian	Yuechi, a county in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
岳西县	yue	xian	Yuexi, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
岳阳县	yue	xian	Yueyang, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
岳阳市	yue	shi	Yueyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
岳阳楼	yue	lou	Yueyang Tower, famous beauty spot in Yueyang, north Hunan, overlooking Dongting Lake 洞庭湖[Dong4 ting2 Hu2]; one of three famous pagodas in China along with Yellow Crane Tower 黃鶴樓|黄鹤楼[Huang2 he4 Lou2] in Wuhan, Hubei and Tengwang Tower 滕王閣|滕王阁[Teng2 wang2 Ge2] in Nanchang, Jiangxi
岳阳楼区	yue	qu	Yueyanglou, a district of Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
岳阳楼记	yue	ji	On Yueyang Tower (1046), essay by Song writer Fan Zhongyan 范仲淹[Fan4 Zhong4 yan1]
岳麓书院	yue	yuan	Yuelu Academy in Changsha, Hunan, famous ancient academy
岳麓区	yue	qu	Yuelu, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
岳麓山	yue	shan	Mt Yuelu in Changsha 長沙|长沙[Chang2 sha1], famous for scenery, temples and tombs
峄城区	yi	qu	Yicheng, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
峇峇娘惹	ba	re	Peranakan Chinese (Baba-Nyonya), an ethnic group of Chinese residing in the Malay peninsula (also known as Straits Chinese)
峇拉煎	ba	jian	(loanword) belachan (South-East Asian condiment made from fermented shrimp paste)
峡江县	xia	xian	Xiajiang, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
峥嵘岁月	zheng	yue	eventful years (idiom)
峨冠博带	e	dai	official class; intellectual class (idiom)
峨山县	e	xian	see 峨山彝族自治縣|峨山彝族自治县[E2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
峨山彝族自治县	e	xian	Eshan Yi Autonomous County, in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
峨嵋山	e	shan	variant of 峨眉山[E2 mei2 Shan1]
峨嵋拳	e	quan	Emeiquan; O Mei Ch'uan (kungfu style)
峨嵋鹟莺	e	ying	(bird species of China) Martens's warbler (Phylloscopus omeiensis)
峨眉山	e	shan	Mount Emei in Sichuan, one of the four sacred mountains of Chinese Buddhism
峨眉山市	e	shi	Emeishan, a county-level city in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
峨眉柳莺	e	ying	(bird species of China) Emei leaf warbler (Phylloscopus emeiensis)
峨边县	e	xian	see 峨邊彝族自治縣|峨边彝族自治县[E2 bian1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
峨边彝族自治县	e	xian	Ebian Yi Autonomous County, in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
峰回路转	feng	zhuan	the mountain road twists around each new peak (idiom); (of a mountain road) twisting and turning; fig. an opportunity has come unexpectedly
峰峰矿区	feng	qu	Fengfeng Mining District, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
峰火台	feng	tai	fire beacon tower (used in frontier regions in former times to relay information about the enemy, using smoke by day and fire at night)
崂山区	lao	qu	Laoshan, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
崆峒区	kong	qu	Kongtong, a district of Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
崇义县	chong	xian	Chongyi, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
崇仁县	chong	xian	Chongren, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
崇信县	chong	xian	Chongxin, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
崇山峻岭	chong	ling	towering mountains and precipitous ridges (idiom)
崇川区	chong	qu	Chongchuan, a district of Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
崇州市	chong	shi	Chongzhou, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
崇左市	chong	shi	Chongzuo, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
崇拜者	chong	zhe	worshipper
崇文门	chong	men	Chongwenmen gate in Beijing
崇明岛	chong	dao	Chongming Island, at the mouth of the Yangtze River in Shanghai
崇洋媚外	chong	wai	to revere everything foreign and pander to overseas powers (idiom); blind worship of foreign goods and ideas
崇礼区	chong	qu	Chongli, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
崇阳县	chong	xian	Chongyang, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
崔圭夏	cui	xia	Choe Gyuha (1919-2006), South Korean politician, president 1979-1980
崔明慧	cui	hui	Christine Choy (1964-), Chinese-American film director
崔永元	cui	yuan	Cui Yongyuan (1963-), TV presenter
崖州区	ya	qu	Yazhou, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
崖沙燕	ya	yan	(bird species of China) sand martin (Riparia riparia)
崖海鸦	ya	ya	(bird species of China) common murre (Uria aalge)
崛地而起	jue	qi	lit. arising suddenly above the level ground (idiom); sudden emergence of prominent new feature
崩坏作用	beng	yong	mass wasting (geology); slope movement
崩大碗	beng	wan	gotu kola (Centella asiatica), herbaceous plant
崩老头	beng	tou	(slang) to trick older men into repeatedly sending small sums of money by feigning romantic interest
崩龙族	beng	zu	the Benglong (Penglung) ethnic group of Yunnan
崭露头角	zhan	jiao	to reveal outstanding talent (idiom); to stand out as conspicuously brilliant
崽卖爷田不心疼	zai	teng	lit. the child sells the father's farm without regret (idiom); fig. to sell one's inheritance without a second thought for how hard one's forebears worked for it
嵊州市	sheng	shi	Shengzhou, a county-level city in Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
嵊泗列岛	sheng	dao	Shengsi Islands, making up Shengsi county in Zhoushan 舟山[Zhou1 shan1], Zhejiang
嵊泗县	sheng	xian	Shengsi, a county in Zhoushan City 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 Shi4], Zhejiang
嵌入式	qian	shi	(electronics) embedded
嵌入式衣柜	qian	gui	built-in closet
嵖岈山	cha	shan	Chaya Mountain in Zhumadian 駐馬店|驻马店[Zhu4 ma3 dian4], Henan
嵩明县	song	xian	Songming, a county in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
巍山县	wei	xian	see 巍山彝族回族自治縣|巍山彝族回族自治县[Wei1 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
巍山彝族回族自治县	wei	xian	Weishan Yi and Hui Autonomous County, in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
巍然屹立	wei	li	to stand tall and rock-solid (idiom); towering majestically; (of a person) to stand up against sb
川党参	chuan	shen	Sichuan codonopsis (Codonopsis pilosula, root used in TCM)
川建国	chuan	guo	nickname for US President Trump 川普[Chuan1 pu3], implying that he benefitted China (hence 建國|建国[jian4 guo2]) by doing a poor job of leading the US
川木香	chuan	xiang	root of Vladimiria souliei (used in TCM); Dolomiaea souliei
川汇区	chuan	qu	Chuanhui, a district of Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
川流不息	chuan	xi	the stream flows without stopping (idiom); unending flow
川滇藏	chuan	zang	Sichuan, Yunnan and Tibet
川端康成	chuan	cheng	Kawabata Yasunari, Japanese literature Nobel laureate
川褐头山雀	chuan	que	(bird species of China) Sichuan tit (Poecile weigoldicus)
川鲁粤苏浙闽湘徽	chuan	hui	the cuisines of Sichuan, Shandong, Guangdong, Jiangsu, Zhejiang, Fujian, Hunan and Anhui (the eight major cuisines of China 八大菜系[ba1 da4 cai4 xi4])
州立大学	zhou	xue	State University (US)
巡回法庭	xun	ting	circuit court
巡回演出	xun	chu	(theater etc) to tour; to be on tour; to give itinerant performances
巡捕房	xun	fang	(old) police station in a foreign concession 租界[zu1 jie4]
巡洋舰	xun	jian	cruiser (warship); battle cruiser
巡测仪	xun	yi	survey meter
巡航导弹	xun	dan	cruise missile
巡逻船	xun	chuan	patrol vessel; cutter
巡逻艇	xun	ting	patrol boat
巡逻车	xun	che	patrol car
巡逻队	xun	dui	(army, police) patrol
巢湖市	chao	shi	Chaohu, a county-level city in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
工业七国集团	gong	tuan	G7, the group of 7 industrialized countries: US, Japan, Britain, Germany, France, Italy and Canada (now G8, including Russia)
工业化	gong	hua	to industrialize; industrialization
工业化国家	gong	jia	industrialized country
工业区	gong	qu	industrial zone
工业品	gong	pin	manufactured goods
工业园区	gong	qu	industrial park
工业国	gong	guo	industrialized country
工业大学	gong	xue	technical university; engineering college
工业学校	gong	xiao	technical or industrial school; CL:個|个[ge4],所[suo3]
工业旅游	gong	you	industrial tourism (visiting a place to learn about its local industries and their production processes)
工业现代化	gong	hua	modernization of industry, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
工业设计	gong	ji	industrial design
工业革命	gong	ming	Industrial Revolution, c. 1750-1830
工于心计	gong	ji	scheming; calculating
工人党	gong	dang	Workers' Party (Singapore opposition party)
工人日报	gong	bao	Workers' Daily, Chinese newspaper founded in 1949
工人阶级	gong	ji	working class
工伤假	gong	jia	injury leave
工作人员	gong	yuan	staff member
工作列	gong	lie	taskbar (computing) (Tw)
工作单位	gong	wei	work unit
工作台	gong	tai	workbench; work station
工作坊	gong	fang	workshop; atelier; studio; (Tw) workshop; seminar
工作委员会	gong	hui	working committee
工作室	gong	shi	studio; workshop
工作报告	gong	gao	working report; operating report
工作日	gong	ri	workday; working day; weekday
工作时间	gong	jian	working hours
工作服	gong	fu	work clothes; workwear
工作流	gong	liu	workflow
工作流程	gong	cheng	workflow
工作犬	gong	quan	working dog
工作狂	gong	kuang	workaholic
工作站	gong	zhan	(computer) workstation
工作管理员	gong	yuan	(computing) task manager (Tw)
工作组	gong	zu	work team; working group; task force
工作者	gong	zhe	worker
工作表	gong	biao	worksheet
工作记忆	gong	yi	working memory
工作证	gong	zheng	employee identification card; work permit
工作过度	gong	du	overwork
工作量	gong	liang	workload; volume of work
工作队	gong	dui	a working group; a task force
工作面	gong	mian	(mining) face (as in coalface 採煤工作面|采煤工作面[cai3 mei2 gong1 zuo4 mian4]); (machining) working surface (of a workpiece)
工作餐	gong	can	working meal
工信部	gong	bu	Ministry of Industry and Information Technology (abbr)
工具书	gong	shu	reference book (such as dictionary, almanac, gazetteer etc)
工具人	gong	ren	(neologism, attested by 2010) (slang) a person used by sb as a means to an end
工具机	gong	ji	machine tool
工具条	gong	tiao	toolbar (in computer software)
工具栏	gong	lan	toolbar (in computer software)
工具箱	gong	xiang	toolbox
工具链	gong	lian	(computing) toolchain
工农业	gong	ye	industry and agriculture
工农兵	gong	bing	workers, peasants, and soldiers; the proletariat
工农区	gong	qu	Gongnong, a district of Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
工商业	gong	ye	industry and commerce
工商界	gong	jie	industry; the world of business
工商管理硕士	gong	shi	Master of Business Administration (MBA)
工商银行	gong	hang	Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
工地秀	gong	xiu	concert held at a real estate development site to attract home buyers (Tw)
工夫茶	gong	cha	variant of 功夫茶[gong1 fu5 cha2]
工字梁	gong	liang	I-beam
工字钢	gong	gang	I-beam
工学院	gong	yuan	school of engineering; college of engineering
工尺谱	gong	pu	traditional Chinese musical notation using Chinese characters to represent musical notes
工布江达	gong	da	see 工布江達縣|工布江达县[Gong1 bu4 jiang1 da2 Xian4]
工布江达县	gong	xian	Gongbo'gyamda, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
工矿用地	gong	di	industrial and mining area
工程图	gong	tu	engineering graphics; technical drawing
工程图学	gong	xue	engineering graphics; technical drawing
工程学	gong	xue	engineering
工程师	gong	shi	engineer
工艺品	gong	pin	handicraft article; handiwork; CL:個|个[ge4]
工艺美术	gong	shu	applied art
工薪族	gong	zu	salaried class
工薪阶层	gong	ceng	salaried class
工装裤	gong	ku	overalls (clothing); coveralls
工读学校	gong	xiao	reformatory; reform school
工读生	gong	sheng	student who also works part-time; (old) reform-school student
工资卡	gong	ka	debit card used to receive one's salary or wages
工资帽	gong	mao	salary cap
左不过	zuo	guo	anyhow; in any event; just
左丘明	zuo	ming	Zuo Qiuming or Zuoqiu Ming (556-451), famous blind historian from Lu 魯國|鲁国[Lu3 guo2] to whom the history Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4] is attributed
左云县	zuo	xian	Zuoyun, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
左倾机会主义	zuo	yi	(Marxist jargon) left opportunism; ultra-left deviation ignoring objective conditions and pushing for radical goals prematurely
左券在握	zuo	wo	to be assured of success (idiom)
左前卫	zuo	wei	left forward (soccer position)
左口鱼	zuo	yu	flounder
左右两难	zuo	nan	(idiom) between a rock and a hard place; in a dilemma
左右为难	zuo	nan	(idiom) between a rock and a hard place; in a dilemma
左右共利	zuo	li	ambidextrous
左右勾拳	zuo	quan	left hook and right hook (boxing); the old one-two
左右开弓	zuo	gong	lit. to shoot from both sides (idiom); fig. to display ambidexterity; to slap with one hand and then the other, in quick succession
左右手	zuo	shou	left and right hands; (fig.) capable assistant; right-hand man
左右袒	zuo	tan	to take sides with; to be partial to; to be biased
左右逢源	zuo	yuan	lit. to strike water right and left (idiom); fig. to turn everything into gold; to have everything going one's way
左嗓子	zuo	zi	off-key singing voice; sb who sings off-key
左字头	zuo	tou	"top of 左 character" component in Chinese characters
左宗棠	zuo	tang	Zuo Zongtang (1812-1885), Chinese administrator and military leader
左宗棠鸡	zuo	ji	General Tso's chicken, a deep-fried chicken dish
左对齐	zuo	qi	to left justify (typography)
左弯右拐	zuo	guai	to follow a winding path
左思右想	zuo	xiang	to turn over in one's mind (idiom); to think through from different angles; to ponder
左拥右抱	zuo	bao	(idiom) to have a girl on each arm
左撇子	zuo	zi	left-hander
左支右绌	zuo	chu	to be in straitened circumstances
左权县	zuo	xian	Zuoquan, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
左氏春秋	zuo	qiu	Mr Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals, attributed to famous blind historian Zuo Qiuming 左丘明[Zuo3 Qiu1 ming2]; usually called Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4]
左氧氟沙星	zuo	xing	levofloxacin (broad-spectrum antibacterial agent)
左箭头	zuo	tou	left-pointing arrow
左箭头键	zuo	jian	left arrow key (on keyboard)
左耳入右耳出	zuo	chu	in one ear and out the other
左膀右臂	zuo	bi	(idiom) trusted assistant; key aide
左至右	zuo	you	left-to-right
左营区	zuo	qu	Zuoying or Tsoying district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
左贡县	zuo	xian	Zogang, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
左轮手枪	zuo	qiang	revolver
左边儿	zuo	r	erhua variant of 左邊|左边[zuo3 bian5]
左道惑众	zuo	zhong	to delude the masses with heretical doctrines (idiom)
左邻右舍	zuo	she	neighbors; next-door neighbors; related work units
左邻右里	zuo	li	see 左鄰右舍|左邻右舍[zuo3 lin2 you4 she4]
左顾右盼	zuo	pan	glancing to left and right (idiom); to look all around
巧克力	qiao	li	(loanword) chocolate; CL:塊|块[kuai4]
巧克力脆片	qiao	pian	chocolate chip
巧固球	qiao	qiu	tchoukball (loanword)
巧妇难为无米之炊	qiao	chui	The cleverest housewife cannot cook without rice (idiom); You won't get anywhere without equipment.
巧家县	qiao	xian	Qiaojia, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
巧立名目	qiao	mu	to fabricate excuses (idiom); to concoct various items (e.g. to pad an expense account)
巧舌如簧	qiao	huang	lit. to have a tongue like the reed of a wind instrument (idiom); fig. to have a glib tongue
巧言令色	qiao	se	to be glib in one's speech and wear an ingratiating expression (idiom)
巧诈不如拙诚	qiao	cheng	the unvarnished truth is better than a cunning ruse (idiom); honesty is the best policy
巨人观	ju	guan	bloated corpse
巨嘴柳莺	ju	ying	(bird species of China) Radde's warbler (Phylloscopus schwarzi)
巨嘴沙雀	ju	que	(bird species of China) desert finch (Rhodospiza obsoleta)
巨嘴短翅莺	ju	ying	(bird species of China) long-billed bush warbler (Locustella major)
巨嘴鸟	ju	niao	toucan
巨噬细胞	ju	bao	macrophage
巨大影响	ju	xiang	huge influence
巨无霸	ju	ba	Big Mac (McDonald's hamburger)
巨无霸指数	ju	shu	Big Mac Index, a measure of the purchasing power parity (PPP) between currencies
巨无霸汉堡包指数	ju	shu	Big Mac Index, a measure of the purchasing power parity (PPP) between currencies
巨海扇蛤	ju	ge	great scallop (Pecten maxiumus); king scallop
巨爵座	ju	zuo	Crater (constellation)
巨牙鲨	ju	sha	megalodon (Carcharodon megalodon)
巨石柱群	ju	qun	Stonehenge
巨石阵	ju	zhen	giant stone arrangement; Stonehenge
巨细胞病毒	ju	du	cytomegalovirus (CMV)
巨细胞病毒视网膜炎	ju	yan	cytomegalovirus retinitis (CMV retinitis), a disease of the retina that can lead to blindness
巨蛇尾	ju	wei	(astronomy) Serpens Cauda
巨蛇座	ju	zuo	Serpens (constellation)
巨蟹座	ju	zuo	Cancer (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
巨野县	ju	xian	Juye, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
巨量转移	ju	yi	mass transfer (in LED panel manufacturing)
巨鹿县	ju	xian	Julu, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
巨齿鲨	ju	sha	see 巨牙鯊|巨牙鲨[ju4 ya2 sha1]
巩义市	gong	shi	Gongyi, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
巩留县	gong	xian	Gongliu, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
巫山县	wu	xian	Wushan, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
巫毒教	wu	jiao	Voodoo religion
巫溪县	wu	xian	Wuxi, a county in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
巫蛊之祸	wu	huo	91 BC attempted coup d'etat against Emperor Wu of Han 漢武帝|汉武帝, beginning with accusations of witchcraft
差一点	cha	dian	see 差點|差点[cha4 dian3]
差一点儿	cha	r	erhua variant of 差一點|差一点[cha4 yi1 dian3]
差不多	cha	duo	almost; nearly; more or less
差不多的	cha	de	the great majority
差不离	cha	li	not much different; similar; ordinary
差不离儿	cha	r	erhua variant of 差不離|差不离[cha4 bu4 li2]
差之毫厘失之千里	cha	li	the slightest difference leads to a huge loss (idiom); a miss is as good as a mile
差之毫厘谬以千里	cha	li	the slightest difference leads to a huge error (idiom); a miss is as good as a mile
差分方程	cha	cheng	difference equation (math.)
差动齿轮	cha	lun	differential gear
差异化	cha	hua	differentiation (of a product from its competitors etc)
差异性	cha	xing	difference
差强人意	cha	yi	(idiom) just passable; barely satisfactory
差得多	cha	duo	to fall well short (in terms of quality, quantity or degree)
差旅费	chai	fei	business travel expenses
差点儿	cha	r	erhua variant of 差點|差点[cha4 dian3]
差点没	cha	mei	almost; nearly; (i.e. same as 差點|差点[cha4 dian3])
差生文具多	cha	duo	(neologism, attested by 2021) underachieving students tend to buy lots of stationery; (fig.) all the gear and no idea
差速器	cha	qi	differential (gear)
差额选举	cha	ju	competitive election (i.e. with more candidates than seats)
己型肝炎	ji	yan	hepatitis F
己所不欲勿施于人	ji	ren	What you don't want done to you, don't do to others. (idiom, from the Confucian analects); Do as you would be done by.; Do not do to others what you would not have them do to you.
已作故人	yi	ren	to have passed away
已婚已育	yi	yu	married, with one or more children
已成形	yi	xing	preformed
已见分晓	yi	xiao	the result becomes apparent; (after) the dust has settled
巴三览四	ba	si	to talk about this and that (idiom); to ramble incoherently
巴不得	ba	de	(coll.) to be eager for; to long for; to look forward to
巴不能够	ba	gou	avid; eager for; longing for
巴东县	ba	xian	Badong, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
巴中市	ba	shi	Bazhong, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
巴伊兰大学	ba	xue	Bar-Ilan University, in Israel
巴伐利亚	ba	ya	Bavaria
巴伦支海	ba	hai	Barents Sea
巴伦西亚	ba	ya	Valencia, Spain
巴儿狗	ba	gou	see 哈巴狗[ha3 ba1 gou3]
巴克夏猪	ba	zhu	Berkshire pig; Berkshire swine
巴克拉瓦	ba	wa	(loanword) baklava
巴克斯	ba	si	Bacchus, Greek god of wine
巴克特里亚	ba	ya	Bactria, an ancient country of Central Asia
巴克科斯	ba	si	Bacchus, Greek god of wine
巴克莱	ba	lai	Barclay or Berkeley (name)
巴克莱银行	ba	hang	Barclays Bank
巴利文	ba	wen	Pali, language of Theravad Pali canon
巴别塔	ba	ta	Tower of Babel, in Genesis 11:5-foll.
巴前算后	ba	hou	thinking and pondering (idiom); to turn sth over in one's mind; to consider repeatedly
巴力门	ba	men	parliament (loanword) (old)
巴勒斯坦	ba	tan	Palestine
巴勒斯坦解放组织	ba	zhi	Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
巴勒莫	ba	mo	Palermo, Italy
巴南区	ba	qu	Banan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
巴卡拉瓦	ba	wa	(loanword) baklava
巴厘岛	ba	dao	Bali (island in Indonesia)
巴吞鲁日	ba	ri	Baton Rouge, capital of Louisiana
巴哈伊	ba	yi	Baha'i (religion)
巴哈马	ba	ma	the Bahamas
巴哥犬	ba	quan	pug (breed of dog)
巴唧巴唧	ba	ji	variant of 吧唧吧唧[ba1 ji5 ba1 ji5]
巴坦群岛	ba	dao	Batan Islands in Bashi Channel between Taiwan and the Philippines
巴基斯坦	ba	tan	Pakistan
巴塘县	ba	xian	Batang, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
巴塞尔	ba	er	Basel, Switzerland
巴塞罗那	ba	na	Barcelona, Spain
巴塞隆纳	ba	na	(Tw) Barcelona, Spain
巴士底	ba	di	the Bastille (Paris)
巴士拉	ba	la	Basra (city in Iraq)
巴士海峡	ba	xia	Bashi Channel in the northern part of the Luzon Strait, just south of Taiwan
巴士站	ba	zhan	bus stop
巴头探脑	ba	nao	to poke one's head in and pry (idiom); to spy; nosy
巴婆果	ba	guo	pawpaw (Asimina triloba)
巴宜区	ba	qu	Bayi, a district of Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
巴宝莉	ba	li	Burberry (brand)
巴宰族	ba	zu	Pazeh, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
巴尔克嫩德	ba	de	Jan Pieter Balkenende (1956-), prime minister of the Netherlands 2002-2010
巴尔喀什湖	ba	hu	Lake Balkhash in southeast Kazakhstan
巴尔多禄茂	ba	mao	Bartholomew
巴尔干	ba	gan	Balkan
巴尔干半岛	ba	dao	Balkan Peninsula
巴尔扎克	ba	ke	Honoré de Balzac (1799-1850), French novelist, author of series La comédie humaine
巴尔的摩	ba	mo	Baltimore (place name, surname etc)
巴尔舍夫斯基	ba	ji	(Charlene) Barshefsky, US trade negotiator
巴尼亚卢卡	ba	ka	Banja Luka (city in Bosnia)
巴山夜雨	ba	yu	rain on Mt Ba (idiom); lonely in a strange land; Evening Rain, 1980 movie about the Cultural Revolution
巴山蜀水	ba	shui	mountains and rivers of Sichuan (idiom)
巴州区	ba	qu	Bazhou, a district of Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
巴巴多斯	ba	si	Barbados
巴巴拉	ba	la	Barbara (name)
巴巴结结	ba	jie	to manage with difficulty; only just getting by; in a difficult position
巴布亚新几内亚	ba	ya	Papua New Guinea
巴布亚纽几内亚	ba	ya	(Tw) Papua New Guinea
巴布尔	ba	er	Zaheeruddin Babur (1483-1530), first ruler of Mughal dynasty of India
巴布延群岛	ba	dao	Babuyan Archipelago in Luzon Strait north of the Philippines
巴布拉族	ba	zu	Papora or Papura, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
巴希尔	ba	er	Bashir (name); Omar Hassan Ahmad al-Bashir (1944-), Sudanese military man and politician, president of Sudan 1993-2019
巴彦县	ba	xian	Bayan, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
巴彦淖尔	ba	er	see 巴彥淖爾市|巴彦淖尔市[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3 Shi4]
巴彦淖尔市	ba	shi	Bayannur, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
巴德尔	ba	er	Baldr or Baldur, god in Norse mythology; Andreas Baader (1943-1977), leader of Red Army Faction, a.k.a. the Baader-Meinhof group
巴心巴肝	ba	gan	with all one's heart (dialect)
巴拉克	ba	ke	Barack, Barak, Ballack (name)
巴拉圭	ba	gui	Paraguay
巴拉基列夫	ba	fu	M.A. Balakirev, Russian composer
巴拉巴斯	ba	si	Barabbas (in the Biblical passion story)
巴拉迪	ba	di	Mohamed ElBaradei (1942–), Director of International Atomic Energy Agency 1997–2009 and Nobel Peace Prize laureate
巴拉马利波	ba	bo	Paramaribo, capital of Suriname (Tw)
巴拿芬	ba	fen	paraffin; variant of 石蠟|石蜡[shi2 la4]
巴拿马	ba	ma	Panama
巴拿马城	ba	cheng	Panama City
巴拿马运河	ba	he	Panama Canal
巴控克什米尔	ba	er	Pakistan administered Kashmir
巴斯克	ba	ke	Basque; the Basque Country
巴斯克语	ba	yu	Basque (language)
巴斯德	ba	de	Louis Pasteur (1822-1895), French chemist and microbiologist
巴斯特尔	ba	er	Basseterre, capital of Saint Kitts and Nevis
巴旦木	ba	mu	almond (loanword)
巴旦杏	ba	xing	almond (loanword)
巴松管	ba	guan	(loanword) bassoon
巴林右	ba	you	Bairin Right banner or Baarin Baruun khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴林右旗	ba	qi	Bairin Right banner or Baarin Baruun khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴林左	ba	zuo	Bairin Left banner of Baarin Züün khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴林左旗	ba	qi	Bairin Left banner of Baarin Züün khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
巴枯宁主义	ba	yi	Bakuninism, the political and social theories associated with the Russian revolutionary and anarchist Mikhail Bakunin (1814–1876)
巴格兰	ba	lan	Baghlan province of north Afghanistan
巴格兰省	ba	sheng	Baghlan province of north Afghanistan
巴格达	ba	da	Baghdad, capital of Iraq
巴楚县	ba	xian	Maralbexi, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
巴比伦	ba	lun	Babylon
巴比妥	ba	tuo	barbitone; barbital
巴氏杀菌	ba	jun	pasteurization
巴氏涂片	ba	pian	Pap smear; Pap test
巴沙鱼	ba	yu	(loanword) basa (Pangasius bocourti)
巴洛克	ba	ke	baroque (loanword)
巴特瓦族	ba	zu	see 特瓦族[Te4 wa3 zu2]
巴特纳	ba	na	Batna, town in eastern Algeria
巴甫洛夫	ba	fu	Pavlov (name); Ivan Petrovich Pavlov (1849-1936), Russian experimental psychologist
巴祖卡	ba	ka	bazooka (loanword)
巴罗佐	ba	zuo	José Manuel Durão Barroso (1956-), Portuguese politician, prime minister of Portugal 2002-04, president of EU Commission from 2004-2014
巴罗克	ba	ke	baroque (period in Western art history) (loanword)
巴耶利巴	ba	ba	Paya Lebar, a place in Singapore
巴西利亚	ba	ya	Brasilia, capital of Brazil
巴西战舞	ba	wu	capoeira
巴西柔术	ba	shu	Brazilian jiu-jitsu
巴解组织	ba	zhi	Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO); abbr. for 巴勒斯坦解放組織|巴勒斯坦解放组织[Ba1 le4 si1 tan3 Jie3 fang4 Zu3 zhi1]
巴豆壳	ba	ke	bark of Croton tiglium used as purgative
巴豆属	ba	shu	Croton, genus of evergreen bush of Euphorbiaceae family 大戟科[da4 ji3 ke1]
巴豆树	ba	shu	croton bush (Croton tiglium), evergreen bush of Euphorbiaceae family 大戟科[da4 ji3 ke1], with seed having strong purgative properties
巴贝多	ba	duo	Barbados, Caribbean island (Tw)
巴贝氏虫病	ba	bing	(medicine) babesiosis
巴贝虫病	ba	bing	(medicine) babesiosis
巴达木	ba	mu	almond (loanword)
巴里坤	ba	kun	see 巴里坤哈薩克自治縣|巴里坤哈萨克自治县[Ba1 li3 kun1 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
巴里坤县	ba	xian	see 巴里坤哈薩克自治縣|巴里坤哈萨克自治县[Ba1 li3 kun1 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
巴里坤哈萨克自治县	ba	xian	Barkol Kazakh Autonomous County, in Hami City 哈密市[Ha1 mi4 Shi4], Xinjiang
巴里坤草原	ba	yuan	Barkol grasslands near Hami in Xinjiang
巴金森氏症	ba	zheng	Parkinson's disease
巴青县	ba	xian	Baqên, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
巴音布克草原	ba	yuan	Bayanbulak grasslands in Uldus basin of Tianshan mountains
巴音郭楞	ba	leng	see 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
巴音郭楞州	ba	zhou	see 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
巴音郭楞蒙古自治州	ba	zhou	Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
巴颂管	ba	guan	(Tw) (loanword) bassoon
巴颜喀拉	ba	la	Bayankala mountain range in Qinghai-Tibet Plateau, watershed of 黃河|黄河[Huang2 He2] Huang He river
巴马县	ba	xian	see 巴馬瑤族自治縣|巴马瑶族自治县[Ba1 ma3 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
巴马干酪	ba	lao	Parmesan cheese
巴马瑶族自治县	ba	xian	Bama Yao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
巴马科	ba	ke	Bamako, capital of Mali
巴高望上	ba	shang	to wish for higher status (idiom); to curry favor in the hope of promotion
巴黎公社	ba	she	Paris Commune 1871, an unsuccessful proletarian uprising against the French Third Republic
巴黎圣母院	ba	yuan	Notre-Dame Cathedral (Paris, France)
巴黎大学	ba	xue	University of Paris
巴黎绿	ba	lv	Paris green; copper(II) acetoarsenite Cu(C2H3O2)2·3Cu(AsO2)2
巽他海峡	xun	xia	Sunda Strait between Sumatra and Java
巽他群岛	xun	dao	Sunda Islands (Malay archipelago)
巽他语	xun	yu	Sunda language, used in West Java province in Indonesia
巾帼须眉	jin	mei	woman with a manly spirit
市中区	shi	qu	Shizhong, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong; Shizhong, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong; Shizhong, a district of Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
市中心	shi	xin	city center; downtown
市井小民	shi	min	ordinary people; the hoi polloi; commoner
市净率	shi	lv	(finance) price-to-book ratio
市北区	shi	qu	Shibei, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
市南区	shi	qu	Shinan, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
市占率	shi	lv	market share; abbr. for 市場佔有率|市场占有率
市场价	shi	jia	market price
市场份额	shi	e	market share
市场准入	shi	ru	access to markets
市场划分	shi	fen	market segmentation
市场化	shi	hua	marketization
市场占有率	shi	lv	market share
市场定位	shi	wei	positioning (marketing)
市场换技术	shi	shu	market access in return for technology transfer (PRC policy since the 1980s which gives foreign companies access to China's domestic market in exchange for sharing their intellectual property, characterized by the US in the 2019 trade war as "forced technology transfer")
市场竞争	shi	zheng	market competition
市场经济	shi	ji	market economy
市场营销	shi	xiao	marketing
市场调查	shi	cha	market research
市政厅	shi	ting	city hall
市政府	shi	fu	city hall; city government
市政税	shi	shui	city council rates; municipal taxes
市民社会	shi	hui	civil society (law)
市盈率	shi	lv	PE ratio
市议会	shi	hui	city council
市议员	shi	yuan	town councilor; city councilor; alderman
市辖区	shi	qu	city district (a county-level administrative unit under prefecture-level cities, or sub-prefecture-level under sub-provincial cities)
市面上	shi	shang	on the market
布什尔	bu	er	Bushehr Province of southern Iran, bordering on the Persian Gulf; Bushehr, port city, capital of Bushehr Province
布伦尼	bu	ni	Brønnøysund (city in Nordland, Norway)
布伦轻机枪	bu	qiang	Bren gun, British light machine gun first produced in 1937
布依族	bu	zu	Bouyei ethnic group
布偶猫	bu	mao	ragdoll (cat breed)
布偶装	bu	zhuang	mascot costume
布兰森	bu	sen	(name) Branson or Brandsen; Sir Richard Branson (1950–), British billionaire and founder of the Virgin Group
布农族	bu	zu	Bunun, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
布列塔尼	bu	ni	Brittany, area in the north-west of France
布列斯特	bu	te	Brest, town in Belarus
布加勒斯特	bu	te	Bucharest, capital of Romania
布加综合征	bu	zheng	Budd-Chiari syndrome
布加迪	bu	di	Bugatti (name); Bugatti Automobiles S.A.S. (French car company)
布劳恩	bu	en	Browne (person name)
布匿战争	bu	zheng	the three Punic Wars (264-146 BC) between Rome and Carthage
布吉河	bu	he	Buji River, tributary of Shenzhen or Shamchun River 深圳河[Shen1 zhen4 He2], Guangdong
布吉纳法索	bu	suo	Burkina Faso (Tw)
布告栏	bu	lan	bulletin board
布哈拉	bu	la	Bokhara or Bukhara city in Uzbekistan
布哈林	bu	lin	Nikolai Ivanovich Bukharin (1888-1938), Soviet revolutionary theorist, executed after a show trial in 1937
布坎南	bu	nan	(surname) Buchanan
布基纳法索	bu	suo	Burkina Faso
布娃娃	bu	wa	rag doll
布宜诺斯艾利斯	bu	si	Buenos Aires, capital of Argentina
布尔乔亚	bu	ya	(loanword) bourgeois; bourgeoisie
布尔什维克	bu	ke	Bolshevik
布尔代数	bu	shu	Boolean algebra
布尔津	bu	jin	see 布爾津縣|布尔津县[Bu4 er3 jin1 Xian4]
布尔津县	bu	xian	Burqin, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
布尔诺	bu	nuo	Brno, city in Czech Republic
布尼亚病毒	bu	du	Bunyavirus; virus of the family Bunyaviridae
布局投手	bu	shou	(baseball) setup man; setup pitcher
布希威克	bu	ke	Bushwick, a neighborhood in Brooklyn, in New York City
布希鞋	bu	xie	Crocs (sandals) (Tw)
布帛菽粟	bu	su	(lit.) cloth, silk, beans and grain (idiom); (fig.) food and clothing; daily necessities
布干维尔	bu	er	Bougainville, Papua New Guinea
布干维尔岛	bu	dao	Bougainville Island, Papua New Guinea
布拉吉	bu	ji	woman's dress (loanword from Russian); gown
布拉德福德	bu	de	Bradford, city in West Yorkshire, England
布拉戈维申斯克	bu	ke	Blagoveshchensk, Russian city on the border with China, administrative center of Amur Oblast 阿穆爾州|阿穆尔州[A1 mu4 er3 Zhou1]
布拉提斯拉瓦	bu	wa	(Tw) Bratislava, capital of Slovakia
布拉柴维尔	bu	er	Brazzaville, capital of Congo
布拉格	bu	ge	Prague, capital of Czech Republic
布拉索夫	bu	fu	Braşov, Romania
布拉萨市	bu	shi	Brazzaville, capital of Congo (Tw)
布拉迪斯拉发	bu	fa	Bratislava, capital of Slovakia
布拖县	bu	xian	Butuo, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
布朗克士	bu	shi	The Bronx, borough of New York City
布朗克斯	bu	si	The Bronx, borough of New York City; Bronx County (coextensive with The Bronx); also written 布朗士
布朗士	bu	shi	The Bronx, borough of New York City; Bronx County (coextensive with The Bronx); also written 布朗克斯
布朗大学	bu	xue	Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island
布朗尼	bu	ni	brownie (pastry) (loanword)
布朗族	bu	zu	Blang ethnic group
布朗运动	bu	dong	(physics) Brownian motion
布松布拉	bu	la	Bujumbura, capital of Burundi (Tw)
布林迪西	bu	xi	Brindisi, port city on southeast heel of Italy
布格麦	bu	mai	bulgur (loanword)
布氏杆菌病	bu	bing	brucellosis (undulant fever or Mediterranean fever)
布氏苇莺	bu	ying	(bird species of China) Blyth's reed warbler (Acrocephalus dumetorum)
布氏非鲫	bu	ji	zebra tilapia; Tilapia buttikoferi (zoology)
布氏鹨	bu	liu	(bird species of China) Blyth's pipit (Anthus godlewskii)
布法罗	bu	luo	Buffalo, New York state
布洒器	bu	qi	disperser
布洛芬	bu	fen	ibuprofen
布洛陀	bu	tuo	creator god of the Zhuang minority 壯族|壮族[Zhuang4 zu2]
布热津斯基	bu	ji	Brzezinski (name); Zbigniew Brzezinski (1928-2017), Polish-American academic and politician, US National Security Adviser 1977-1981
布琼布拉	bu	la	Bujumbura, capital of Burundi
布痕瓦尔德	bu	de	Buchenwald
布莱克史密斯	bu	si	Blacksmith (name)
布莱克本	bu	ben	Blackburn
布莱叶	bu	ye	Braille (name); Louis Braille (1809-1852), French educator who invented braille
布莱尔	bu	er	Blair (name)
布莱尼	bu	ni	Bryne (City in Rogaland, Norway)
布莱德湖	bu	hu	Lake Bled, glacial lake amid the Julian Alps in Slovenia, adjacent to the town of Bled
布莱恩	bu	en	Brian (name)
布莱氏鹨	bu	liu	(Tw) (bird species of China) Blyth's pipit (Anthus godlewskii)
布莱顿	bu	dun	Brighton, town in England
布衣韦带	bu	dai	in hemp cloth and with a leather belt; poorly dressed
布袋和尚	bu	shang	Budai (the Laughing Budda)
布袋弹	bu	dan	bean bag round
布袋戏	bu	xi	glove puppetry
布袋戏偶	bu	ou	glove puppet (Tw)
布谷鸟	bu	niao	cuckoo (Cercococcyx spp.); same as 杜鵑鳥|杜鹃鸟[du4 juan1 niao3]
布达佩斯	bu	si	Budapest, capital of Hungary
布达拉宫	bu	gong	Potala, winter palace of Dalai Lamas in Lhasa, Tibet
布达拉山	bu	shan	Mt Potala in Lhasa, with Potala Palace 布達拉宮|布达拉宫
布迪亚	bu	ya	Baudrillard (name)
布里坦尼	bu	ni	Brittany (France); Bretagne
布里奇顿	bu	dun	Bridgetown, capital of Barbados
布里斯托	bu	tuo	Bristol
布里斯托尔	bu	er	Bristol port city in southwest England
布里斯托尔海峡	bu	xia	Bristol Channel in southwest England
布里斯班	bu	ban	Brisbane, capital of Queensland, Australia
布里特妮	bu	ni	Britney, Brittney or Brittany (name)
布防迎战	bu	zhan	to prepare to meet the enemy head-on
布隆伯格	bu	ge	Blumberg or Bloomberg (name)
布隆方丹	bu	dan	Bloemfontein
布隆迪	bu	di	Burundi
布雷斯特	bu	te	Brest, westernmost town in France
布雷舰	bu	jian	minelayer (ship)
布雷顿森林	bu	lin	Bretton Woods, New Hampshire, USA, location of the 1944 Bretton Woods Conference
布须曼人	bu	ren	bushman (African ethnic group)
布鲁克	bu	ke	(name) Brook; Peter Brook (1925–2022), British theater director
布鲁克林	bu	lin	Brooklyn, borough of New York City
布鲁克林大桥	bu	qiao	Brooklyn Bridge
布鲁克海文实验室	bu	shi	Brookhaven National Laboratory
布鲁图斯	bu	si	Brutus (name)
布鲁塞尔	bu	er	Brussels, capital of Belgium
布鲁姆斯伯里	bu	li	Bloomsbury, London district
布鲁斯	bu	si	blues (music) (loanword)
布鲁日	bu	ri	Bruges (Dutch Brugge), medieval town in Belgium
布鲁氏菌病	bu	bing	(medicine) brucellosis
布鲁特斯	bu	si	Brutus (name); Marcus Junius Brutus (85-42 BC), late Roman Republic politician who conspired against Julius Caesar; Lucius Junius Brutus (6th c. BC), founder of the Roman Republic
帅呆了	shuai	le	awesome; brilliant; magnificent
帆布鞋	fan	xie	canvas shoes
帆背潜鸭	fan	ya	(bird species of China) canvasback (Aythya valisineria)
师兄弟	shi	di	male fellow disciples; fellow apprentices
师出无名	shi	ming	lit. to go to war without just cause (idiom); to act without justification
师出有名	shi	ming	lit. to have sufficient reason to send troops (idiom); to do something with good reason; to have just cause
师夷长技以制夷	shi	yi	"learn from the foreigners in order to gain command of them", idea advocated by Wei Yuan 魏源[Wei4 Yuan2]
师宗县	shi	xian	Shizong, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
师范大学	shi	xue	normal university; teacher training college
师范学院	shi	yuan	teacher's college; normal school
希伯来	xi	lai	Hebrew
希伯来书	xi	shu	Epistle of St Paul to the Hebrews
希伯来人	xi	ren	a Hebrew
希伯来大学	xi	xue	the Hebrew University of Jerusalem
希伯来文	xi	wen	Hebrew (language)
希伯来语	xi	yu	Hebrew (language)
希伯莱	xi	lai	variant of 希伯來|希伯来[Xi1 bo2 lai2]
希夏邦马峰	xi	feng	Mt Shishapangma or Xixiabangma in Tibet (8012 m)
希奇古怪	xi	guai	variant of 稀奇古怪[xi1 qi2 gu3 guai4]
希尔伯特	xi	te	David Hilbert (1862–1943), German mathematician
希尔内科斯	xi	si	Kirkenes (city in Finnmark, Norway)
希尔弗瑟姆	xi	mu	Hilversum, city in Netherlands
希尔顿	xi	dun	Hilton (hotel chain)
希律王	xi	wang	Herod the Great (73 BC - 4 BC), Roman-appointed king of Judea (37-4 BC)
希拉克	xi	ke	Jacques Chirac (1932-2019), president of France 1995-2007
希拉蕊	xi	rui	Taiwan equivalent of 希拉里[Xi1 la1 li3]
希拉里	xi	li	Hillary (name); Hillary Rodham Clinton (1947-), US Democratic politician
希斯仑	xi	lun	Hezron (son of Perez)
希望落空	xi	kong	hopes are dashed
希格斯	xi	si	Higgs (name); Peter Higgs (1929-), British theoretical physicist, one proposer of the Higgs mechanism or Higgs boson to explain the mass of elementary particles
希格斯机制	xi	zhi	(physics) the Higgs mechanism
希格斯玻色子	xi	zi	Higgs boson (particle physics)
希格斯粒子	xi	zi	Higgs particle (particle physics)
希沃特	xi	te	sievert (Sv), unit of radiation damage used in radiotherapy
希波克拉底	xi	di	Hippocrates (c. 460 BC - c. 370 BC), Greek physician, father of Western medicine
希特勒	xi	le	Adolf Hitler (1889-1945)
希罗底	xi	di	Herodium (town in biblical Judea)
希腊字母	xi	mu	Greek alphabet
希腊文	xi	wen	Greek literature
希腊语	xi	yu	Greek language
希舒美	xi	mei	Zithromax (brand name for the antibiotic azithromycin 阿奇黴素|阿奇霉素[a1 qi2 mei2 su4])
希西家	xi	jia	Hezekiah or Ezekias (740-687 BC), twelfth king of Judah (Judaism)
帕兰卡	pa	ka	Palanka (a personal name)
帕内尔	pa	er	Parnell (name); Charles Stewart Parnell (1846-1891), Irish nationalist politician
帕利基尔	pa	er	Palikir, capital of the Federated States of Micronesia
帕台农	pa	nong	Parthenon (Temple on the Acropolis, Athens)
帕台农神庙	pa	miao	Parthenon Temple on the Acropolis, Athens
帕塔亚	pa	ya	Pattaya or Phatthaya city in Chon Buri province of east Thailand
帕尔瓦蒂	pa	di	Parvati (Hindu deity, the consort of Shiva)
帕尼尼	pa	ni	(loanword) panini
帕尼巴特	pa	te	Panipat, ancient city in India
帕德嫩神庙	pa	miao	Parthenon Temple on the Acropolis, Athens (Tw)
帕拉塞尔苏斯	pa	si	Paracelsus (1493–1541), Swiss physician, alchemist and philosopher, pioneer of toxicology and medical chemistry
帕拉马里博	pa	bo	Paramaribo, capital of Suriname
帕提亚人	pa	ren	Parthian
帕提侬神庙	pa	miao	the Parthenon, Athens
帕斯卡	pa	ka	Pascal (name); Blaise Pascal (1623-1662), French mathematician
帕斯卡三角形	pa	xing	Pascal's Triangle (math.)
帕斯卡六边形	pa	xing	Pascal's hexagon
帕斯卡尔	pa	er	Pascal (name)
帕果帕果	pa	guo	Pago Pago, capital of American Samoa
帕格尼尼	pa	ni	Niccolò Paganini (1782-1840), Italian violinist and composer
帕特丽夏	pa	xia	Patricia
帕特里克	pa	ke	Patrick (name)
帕特里夏	pa	xia	Patricia
帕玛森	pa	sen	Parmesan
帕瓦罗蒂	pa	di	Luciano Pavarotti (1935-2007), Italian operatic tenor
帕皮提	pa	ti	Papeete, capital of French Polynesia
帕福斯	pa	si	Paphos, Cyprus
帕米尔	pa	er	the Pamirs, highland region of Central Asia
帕米尔高原	pa	yuan	the Pamirs, highland region of Central Asia
帕累托	pa	tuo	Vilfredo Pareto (1848-1923), Italian economist
帕累托最优	pa	you	Pareto efficiency (economics); Pareto optimality
帕累托法则	pa	ze	Pareto principle
帕萨特	pa	te	Passat (automobile)
帕蒂尔	pa	er	Patil (name); Pratibha Patil (1934-), female Indian Congress Party politician, president of India 2007-2012
帕金森	pa	sen	(name) Parkinson
帕金森氏症	pa	zheng	Parkinson's disease
帕金森病	pa	bing	Parkinson's disease
帕马森	pa	sen	Parmesan
帖撒罗尼迦	tie	jia	Thessalonica
帖撒罗尼迦前书	tie	shu	First epistle of St Paul to the Thessalonians
帖撒罗尼迦后书	tie	shu	Second Epistle of St Paul to the Thessalonians
帖木儿	tie	er	Timur or Tamerlane (1336-1405), Mongol emperor and conqueror
帖木儿大汗	tie	han	Timur or Tamerlane (1336-1405), Mongol emperor and conqueror
帝企鹅	di	e	emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri)
帝国主义	di	yi	imperialism
帝国大厦	di	sha	Empire State Building (New York City)
帝国理工学院	di	yuan	Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, London
帝汶岛	di	dao	Timor island
帝汶海	di	hai	Timor Sea
帝王企鹅	di	e	emperor penguin (Aptenodytes forsteri)
帝王蟹	di	xie	king crab (esp. Paralithodes camtschaticus)
帝王谱	di	pu	list of emperors and kings; dynastic genealogy
带上门	dai	men	to close the door (when going through it)
带分数	dai	shu	mixed fraction; mixed number (i.e. with an integer part and a fraction part, e.g. four and three quarters); see also: improper fraction 假分數|假分数[jia3 fen1 shu4] and proper fraction 真分數|真分数[zhen1 fen1 shu4]
带原者	dai	zhe	(disease) carrier
带头人	dai	ren	leader
带孩子	dai	zi	to look after a baby; to take care of a young child
带牛佩犊	dai	du	to abandon armed struggle and return to raising cattle (idiom)
带状电缆	dai	lan	ribbon cable
带状疱疹	dai	zhen	shingles; herpes zoster (medicine)
带电粒子	dai	zi	electrically charged particles
带红色	dai	se	reddish
带菌者	dai	zhe	asymptomatic carrier
带薪休假	dai	jia	paid leave
带路人	dai	ren	a guide; fig. instructor
帧中继	zhen	ji	frame relay
帧格式	zhen	shi	frame format
帧检验序列	zhen	lie	frame check sequence (FCS)
帧首定界符	zhen	fu	start frame delimiter (SFD)
席凡宁根	xi	gen	Scheveningen, resort in Den Haag (The Hague), Netherlands
席地而坐	xi	zuo	(idiom) to sit on the ground or the floor
席地而睡	xi	shui	to sleep on the ground
席德尼	xi	ni	Sidney or Sydney (name)
席梦思	xi	si	inner-spring mattress (loanword from US mattress brand "Simmons")
帮倒忙	bang	mang	to be more of a hindrance than a help
帮宝适	bang	shi	(brand) Pampers
帮帮忙	bang	mang	to help; to do a favor; (Shanghainese) Come on!
常任理事国	chang	guo	permanent member state (of the UN Security Council)
常住论	chang	lun	eternalism (permanence of soul, Sanskrit śāśvata-vāda)
常务委员会	chang	hui	standing committee (e.g. of National People's Congress)
常务理事	chang	shi	permanent member of council
常委会	chang	hui	standing committee
常宁市	chang	shi	Changning, a county-level city in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
常山县	chang	xian	Changshan, a county in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
常州市	chang	shi	Changzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
常年累月	chang	yue	variant of 長年累月|长年累月[chang2 nian2 lei3 yue4]
常微分方程	chang	cheng	ordinary differential equation (ODE)
常德丝弦	chang	xian	Changde sixian, theatrical folk music style with singing in Changde dialect accompanied by traditional string instruments
常德市	chang	shi	Changde, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
常态分布	chang	bu	normal distribution (in statistics)
常态分班	chang	ban	(Tw) grouping of students into classes of mixed ability
常态化	chang	hua	(statistics) normalized; to normalize (relations etc); to become the norm
常态编班	chang	ban	see 常態分班|常态分班[chang2 tai4 fen1 ban1]
常数项	chang	xiang	constant term (in a mathematical expression)
常春藤	chang	teng	ivy
常春藤学府	chang	fu	Ivy League school
常来常往	chang	wang	to visit frequently; to have frequent dealings (with); to see each other often
常染色体	chang	ti	autosomal chromosome; autosome; autosomal
常熟市	chang	shi	Changshu, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
常用品	chang	pin	everyday implement; object of everyday use
常用字	chang	zi	commonly used Chinese character
常绿树	chang	shu	evergreen tree
常绿植物	chang	wu	evergreen plant
常胜军	chang	jun	Ever Victorious Army (1860-1864), Qing dynasty army equipped and trained jointly with Europeans and used esp. against the Taiping rebels
常衡制	chang	zhi	Avoirdupois Weight, a system of weights based on the 16-ounce pound (or 7,000 grains)
常见问题	chang	ti	common problems; FAQ
常规武器	chang	qi	conventional weapon
常规赛	chang	sai	(sports) regular season
常言说得好	chang	hao	as the saying goes; as they say...
常问问题	chang	ti	frequently asked questions; FAQ
常青藤	chang	teng	ivy
常青藤八校	chang	xiao	Ivy League
帽天山	mao	shan	Mt Maotian in Chengjiang County 澄江縣|澄江县[Cheng2 jiang1 Xian4], Yuxi, east Yunnan
帽子叔叔	mao	shu	(slang) police officer
帽子戏法	mao	fa	hat trick (when one player scores three goals)
帽箍儿	mao	r	the ribbon around a cap
幂级数	mi	shu	power series (math.)
幕后操纵	mu	zong	to manipulate from behind the scenes; to pull the strings
幕后花絮	mu	xu	(cinema, TV) behind-the-scenes footage; bonus features; making-of clips (e.g. bloopers, outtakes, cast interviews or production footage)
幕后黑手	mu	shou	malign agent who manipulates from behind the scenes; hidden hand
幡然改图	fan	tu	to change one's plan all of a sudden (idiom)
干事长	gan	zhang	secretary-general
干什么	gan	me	what are you doing?; what's he up to?
干你娘	gan	niang	(Tw) (vulgar) fuck you! (literally, "fuck your mother")
干儿子	gan	zi	adopted son (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
干净利落	gan	luo	squeaky clean; neat and tidy; efficient
干女儿	gan	er	adopted daughter (traditional adoption, i.e. without legal ramifications)
干巴巴	gan	ba	dry; parched; dull
干手机	gan	ji	hand dryer
干打垒	gan	lei	rammed earth; adobe house
干打雷不下雨	gan	yu	all thunder but no rain (idiom); a lot of noise but no action
干扰素	gan	su	interferon
干旱土	gan	tu	aridisol (soil taxonomy)
干柴烈火	gan	huo	(idiom) explosive mutual passion; blaze of passion (esp. between lovers)
干梅子	gan	zi	prunes
干活儿	gan	r	erhua variant of 幹活|干活[gan4 huo2]
干涉仪	gan	yi	interferometer (physics)
干煸四季豆	gan	dou	fried beans, Sichuan style
干煸土豆丝	gan	si	dry-fried potato slices (Chinese dish)
干煸豆角	gan	jiao	green beans in sauce, popular Beijing dish
干燥剂	gan	ji	desiccant
干燥机	gan	ji	a drier
干物女	gan	nv	single girl who lives a lackadaisical life, uninterested in relationships (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 干物女 "himono onna")
干电池	gan	chi	dry cell (battery)
干眼症	gan	zheng	(medicine) xerophthalmia; dry eye syndrome
干着急	gan	ji	to worry helplessly
干瞪眼	gan	yan	to watch helplessly
干粮袋	gan	dai	knapsack (for provisions); haversack
干细胞	gan	bao	stem cell
干脆利索	gan	suo	see 乾脆利落|干脆利落[gan1 cui4 li4 luo5]
干脆利落	gan	luo	(of speech or actions) direct and efficient; without fooling around
干酪素	gan	su	casein
平乐县	ping	xian	Pingle, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
平乡县	ping	xian	Pingxiang, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
平交道	ping	dao	level crossing
平假名	ping	ming	hiragana (Japanese script)
平凉市	ping	shi	Pingliang, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
平分秋色	ping	se	to both share the limelight; to both have an equal share of
平利县	ping	xian	Pingli, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
平南县	ping	xian	Pingnan, a county in Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
平原县	ping	xian	Pingyuan, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
平原鹨	ping	liu	(bird species of China) tawny pipit (Anthus campestris)
平台即服务	ping	wu	(computing) platform as a service (PaaS)
平和县	ping	xian	Pinghe, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
平地木	ping	mu	(TCM) Japanese ardisia (Ardisia japonica)
平地机	ping	ji	land grader; road grader
平地起家	ping	jia	to start from scratch (idiom)
平地起风波	ping	bo	trouble appearing from nowhere; unforeseen situation
平均主义	ping	yi	egalitarianism
平均值	ping	zhi	average value
平均值定理	ping	li	the mean value theorem (in calculus)
平均剂量	ping	liang	average dose
平均寿命	ping	ming	life expectancy
平均差	ping	cha	(math.) mean deviation
平均律	ping	lv	equal temperament (music)
平均成本法	ping	fa	(finance) dollar cost averaging
平均收入	ping	ru	average income
平均数	ping	shu	mean (statistics)
平坝区	ping	qu	Pingba, a district of Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
平型关	ping	guan	Pingxing Pass, mountain pass in Shanxi Province
平型关大捷	ping	jie	Great Victory at Pingxing Pass, ambush of Japanese troops by Communist forces on September 25, 1937 at 平型關|平型关[Ping2 xing2 guan1]
平城区	ping	qu	Pingcheng, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
平埔族	ping	zu	Pingpu or Pepo aborigines (Taiwan), "plains tribes"
平塘县	ping	xian	Pingtang, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
平壤市	ping	shi	Pyongyang, capital of North Korea
平天下	ping	xia	to pacify the country
平头哥	ping	ge	(slang) honey badger (Mellivora capensis)
平头百姓	ping	xing	common people; ordinary people
平安北道	ping	dao	North P'yong'an Province in west of North Korea, adjacent to Liaoning
平安区	ping	qu	Ping'an, a district of Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
平安南道	ping	dao	South P'yong'an Province in west of North Korea
平安夜	ping	ye	Silent Night (Christmas carol); Christmas Eve
平安无事	ping	shi	safe and sound (idiom)
平安时代	ping	dai	Heian period (794-1185), period of Japanese history
平安神宫	ping	gong	Heian Jingū or Heian Shrine, in Kyōto, Japan
平安道	ping	dao	P'yong'ando Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into South Pyong'an Province 平安南道[Ping2 an1 nan2 dao4] and North Pyong'an Province 平安北道[Ping2 an1 bei3 dao4] of North Korea
平安里	ping	li	Ping'an Li (street name in Beijing)
平定县	ping	xian	Pingding, a county in Yangquan City 陽泉市|阳泉市[Yang2 quan2 Shi4], Shanxi
平宝盖	ping	gai	name of "cover" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 14); see also 冖[mi4]
平山区	ping	qu	Pingshan, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
平山县	ping	xian	Pingshan, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
平川区	ping	qu	Pingchuan, a district of Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
平常心	ping	xin	levelheadedness; calmness; equanimity
平常日	ping	ri	weekday
平平常常	ping	chang	nothing out of the ordinary; unglamorous
平平无奇	ping	qi	(idiom) ordinary; unremarkable; nothing special
平底锅	ping	guo	frying pan
平度市	ping	shi	Pingdu, a county-level city in Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
平庸之恶	ping	e	(philosophy) banal evil
平庸之辈	ping	bei	a nobody; a nonentity
平心而论	ping	lun	(idiom) in all fairness; objectively speaking
平快车	ping	che	local express
平房区	ping	qu	Pingfang, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
平方公里	ping	li	square kilometer
平方千米	ping	mi	square kilometer
平方反比定律	ping	lv	inverse-square law (physics)
平方反比律	ping	lv	inverse square law (physics)
平方平均数	ping	shu	root mean square (RMS); quadratic root
平方根	ping	gen	square root
平方米	ping	mi	square meter
平方英尺	ping	chi	square foot (unit of area equal to 0.093 m²)
平昌县	ping	xian	Pingchang, a county in Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
平易近人	ping	ren	amiable and approachable (idiom); easygoing; modest and unassuming; (of writing) plain and simple
平权措施	ping	shi	affirmative action
平板手机	ping	ji	phablet (large smartphone combining features of phone and tablet); CL:台[tai2]
平板支撑	ping	cheng	plank (exercise)
平板电脑	ping	nao	tablet computer; CL:台[tai2]
平板车	ping	che	handcart; trolley; flatbed truck
平果市	ping	shi	Pingguo, a county-level city in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
平桥区	ping	qu	Pingqiao, a district of Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
平步青云	ping	yun	to rapidly go up in the world; meteoric rise (of a career, social position etc)
平武县	ping	xian	Pingwu, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
平江县	ping	xian	Pingjiang, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
平泉市	ping	shi	Pingquan, a county-level city in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
平津战役	ping	yi	Pingjin Campaign (Nov 1948-Jan 1949), one of the three major campaigns by the People's Liberation Army near the end of the Chinese Civil War
平流层	ping	ceng	stratosphere
平淡无奇	ping	qi	ordinary and mediocre (idiom); nothing to write home about
平湖市	ping	shi	Pinghu, a county-level city in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
平滑字	ping	zi	(typography) sans serif
平滑肌	ping	ji	smooth muscle (anatomy); non-striated muscle
平潭县	ping	xian	Pingtan, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
平白无故	ping	gu	(idiom) for no reason whatever; inexplicably
平等主义	ping	yi	egalitarianism
平等互利	ping	li	mutual benefit; to share profits equitably
平罗县	ping	xian	Pingluo, a county in Shizuishan City 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 Shi4], Ningxia
平舆县	ping	xian	Pingyu, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
平舌音	ping	yin	alveolar; consonants z, c, s produced with the tip of the tongue on the alveolar ridge
平行世界	ping	jie	parallel universe
平行公设	ping	she	(geometry) the parallel postulate (Euclid's fifth postulate)
平行六面体	ping	ti	(math.) parallelepiped
平行四边形	ping	xing	parallelogram
平行宇宙	ping	zhou	parallel universe
平行时空	ping	kong	parallel universe
平行线	ping	xian	parallel lines
平行计算	ping	suan	(Tw) parallel computing
平衡态	ping	tai	balance; (state of) equilibrium
平衡木	ping	mu	beam (gymnastics); balance beam
平衡棒	ping	bang	haltere (insect anatomy)
平衡觉	ping	jue	sense of balance; equilibrioception
平衡车	ping	che	self-balancing scooter; balance bike
平装本	ping	ben	paperback (book)
平谷区	ping	qu	Pinggu, a district of Beijing
平起平坐	ping	zuo	to be on an equal footing
平远县	ping	xian	Pingyuan, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
平遥县	ping	xian	Pingyao, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
平邑县	ping	xian	Pingyi, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
平铺直叙	ping	xu	(idiom) (neutral) to narrate in a plain, unaffected manner; (mildly critical) to recount events in a flat, colorless style
平阳县	ping	xian	Pingyang, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
平阴县	ping	xian	Pingyin, a county in Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
平陆县	ping	xian	Pinglu, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
平面几何	ping	he	plane geometry
平面图	ping	tu	a plan; a planar graph; a plane figure
平面媒体	ping	ti	print media
平面曲线	ping	xian	(math.) plane curve
平面波	ping	bo	a plane wave
平面角	ping	jiao	plane angle
平面设计	ping	ji	graphic design
平面镜	ping	jing	(physics) plane mirror
平顶山	ping	shan	see 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4]
平顶山市	ping	shi	Pingdingshan, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
平顺县	ping	xian	Pingshun, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
平鲁区	ping	qu	Pinglu, a district of Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
年三十	nian	shi	last day of the lunar year; Chinese New Year's Eve
年久失修	nian	xiu	old and in a state of disrepair (idiom); dilapidated
年之久	nian	jiu	period of ... years
年事已高	nian	gao	old in years
年代初	nian	chu	beginning of an age; beginning of a decade
年代学	nian	xue	chronology (the science of determining the dates of past events)
年功加俸	nian	feng	increase in salary according to one's service record for the year (idiom)
年均增长率	nian	lv	average annual growth rate
年均日照	nian	zhao	average annual sunshine (hours)
年复一年	nian	nian	(idiom) over the years; year after year
年夜饭	nian	fan	reunion dinner on Lunar New Year's Eve (Chinese New Year tradition)
年头儿	nian	r	erhua variant of 年頭|年头[nian2 tou2]
年富力强	nian	qiang	young and vigorous (idiom)
年少无知	nian	zhi	(idiom) young and inexperienced; unsophisticated
年已蹉跎	nian	tuo	the years have already gone by; to be too old
年年有余	nian	yu	lit. (may you) have abundance year after year; (an auspicious saying for the Lunar New Year)
年度大会	nian	hui	annual meeting; annual general meeting (AGM)
年度报告	nian	gao	annual report
年度预算	nian	suan	annual budget
年收入	nian	ru	annual income
年楚河	nian	he	Nyang qu or Nian chu River in Tibet, a tributary of Yarlung Tsangpo
年画儿	nian	r	erhua variant of 年畫|年画[nian2 hua4]
年纪轻轻	nian	qing	at such a young age; so young
年终奖	nian	jiang	year-end bonus
年老体弱	nian	ruo	old and weak (idiom)
年老力衰	nian	shuai	old and weak (idiom)
年轮蛋糕	nian	gao	baumkuchen (cake)
年轻人	nian	ren	young people; youngster
年轻力壮	nian	zhuang	young and vigorous (idiom)
年轻化	nian	hua	to make more youthful; to promote younger staff
年轻有为	nian	wei	young and promising
年轻气盛	nian	sheng	full of youthful vigor (idiom); in the prime of youth
年较差	nian	cha	annual range (temperature, humidity etc)
年逾古稀	nian	xi	over seventy years old
年高德劭	nian	shao	to be advanced in both years and virtue (idiom)
年龄段	nian	duan	age group
年龄组	nian	zu	age group
并不在乎	bing	hu	really does not care
并卷机	bing	ji	ribbon lap machine
并发症	bing	zheng	complications (undesired side-effect of medical procedure)
并发计算	bing	suan	concurrent computing
并系群	bing	qun	paraphyletic group
并肩作战	bing	zhan	(idiom) to fight side by side; (by extension) to join forces
并蒂莲	bing	lian	lit. twin lotus flowers on one stalk; fig. a devoted married couple
并行不悖	bing	bei	to run in parallel without hindrance; not mutually exclusive; two processes can be implemented without conflict
并行口	bing	kou	parallel port (computing)
并行程序	bing	xu	parallel program
并行计算	bing	suan	parallel computing; (Tw) concurrent computing
并驾齐驱	bing	qu	(idiom) to run neck and neck; to keep pace with; to keep abreast of; on par with one another
幸存者	xing	zhe	survivor
幸灾乐祸	xing	huo	lit. to take joy in calamity and delight in disaster (idiom); fig. to rejoice in other people's misfortune; Schadenfreude
幸甚至哉	xing	zai	filled with joy (quotation from poems by Cao Cao 曹操[Cao2 Cao1])
幸福学	xing	xue	eudemonics; hedonomics
幸运信	xing	xin	chain letter
幸运儿	xing	er	winner; lucky guy; person who always gets good breaks
幸运抽奖	xing	jiang	lucky draw; lottery
幸运曲奇	xing	qi	fortune cookie
幸运饼干	xing	gan	fortune cookie
幺并矢	yao	shi	idemfactor (math.)
幺麽小丑	yao	chou	(idiom) insignificant wretch
幻椅式	huan	shi	chair (yoga pose)
幻灯机	huan	ji	slide projector; overhead projector
幻灯片	huan	pian	(computing) presentation slide; (photography) slide
幻觉剂	huan	ji	hallucinogen
幼儿园	you	yuan	kindergarten; nursery school
幼发拉底河	you	he	Euphrates River
幼吾幼以及人之幼	you	you	to care for other's children as one's own
幼稚园	you	yuan	kindergarten (Tw)
幼童军	you	jun	Cub Scout
幽浮迷	you	mi	(Tw) UFO enthusiast
幽门螺旋杆菌	you	jun	Helicobacter pylori (stomach bacterium)
幽门螺旋菌	you	jun	Helicobacter pylori (stomach bacterium)
幽门螺杆菌	you	jun	Helicobacter pylori (stomach bacterium)
幽闭恐惧	you	ju	claustrophobia
幽闭恐惧症	you	zheng	claustrophobia
幽默感	you	gan	sense of humor
广东人	guang	ren	Cantonese (people)
广东外语外贸大学	guang	xue	Guangdong University of Foreign Studies
广东海洋大学	guang	xue	Guangdong Ocean University
广东省	guang	sheng	Guangdong Province, capital Guangzhou 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 粵|粤[Yue4])
广东话	guang	hua	Cantonese language
广丰区	guang	qu	Guangfeng, a district of Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
广义相对论	guang	lun	(physics) general relativity
广九铁路	guang	lu	Guangdong and Kowloon railway
广交会	guang	hui	China Export Commodities Fair also known as the Canton Fair
广信区	guang	qu	Guangxin, a district of Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
广元市	guang	shi	Guangyuan, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
广南县	guang	xian	Guangnan, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
广受好评	guang	ping	widely praised; well received
广告主	guang	zhu	advertiser
广告位	guang	wei	ad space; ad slot
广告商	guang	shang	advertising company
广告宣传	guang	chuan	advertising; publicity; promotion
广告宣传画	guang	hua	placard; poster
广告宣传车	guang	che	mobile billboard
广告拦截器	guang	qi	ad-blocker
广告条幅	guang	fu	banner advertisement
广告栏	guang	lan	advertising column (in a newspaper); bulletin board
广告片	guang	pian	advertising film; TV commercial
广告牌	guang	pai	billboard
广告衫	guang	shan	promotional T-shirt; CL:件[jian4]
广场恐怖症	guang	zheng	agoraphobia
广场恐惧	guang	ju	agoraphobia
广场恐惧症	guang	zheng	agoraphobia
广场舞	guang	wu	square dancing, an exercise routine performed to music in public squares, parks and plazas, popular esp. among middle-aged and retired women in China
广域市	guang	shi	metropolitan city, South Korean analog of PRC municipality 直轄市|直辖市[zhi2 xia2 shi4]
广域网	guang	wang	wide area network; WAN
广域网路	guang	lu	wide area network; WAN
广宁县	guang	xian	Guangning, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
广安区	guang	qu	Guang'an, a district of Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
广安市	guang	shi	Guang'an, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
广安门	guang	men	Guanganmen in Xuanwu 宣武區|宣武区 district of southwest Beijing
广宗县	guang	xian	Guangzong, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
广州中医药大学	guang	xue	Guangzhou University of Chinese Medicine
广州市	guang	shi	Guangzhou, sub-provincial city and capital of Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
广州日报	guang	bao	Guangzhou Daily
广州美术学院	guang	yuan	Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts
广平县	guang	xian	Guangping, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
广开言路	guang	lu	to encourage the free airing of views (idiom)
广德市	guang	shi	Guangde, a county-level city in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
广播剧	guang	ju	radio drama
广播员	guang	yuan	(radio) broadcaster
广播地址	guang	zhi	broadcast address
广播室	guang	shi	broadcasting room
广播电台	guang	tai	radio station
广播网	guang	wang	network
广播网路	guang	lu	broadcast network
广播节目	guang	mu	radio program; broadcast program
广昌县	guang	xian	Guangchang, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
广水市	guang	shi	Guangshui, a county-level city in Suizhou City 隨州市|随州市[Sui2 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
广汉市	guang	shi	Guanghan, a county-level city in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
广河县	guang	xian	Guanghe, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
广泛影响	guang	xiang	wide ranging influence
广泛性焦虑症	guang	zheng	generalized anxiety disorder (GAD)
广灵县	guang	xian	Guangling, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
广电总局	guang	ju	National Radio and Television Administration (NRTA) (abbr. for 國家廣播電視總局|国家广播电视总局[Guo2 jia1 Guang3 bo1 Dian4 shi4 Zong3 ju2]); formerly SAPPRFT, the State Administration of Press, Publication, Radio, Film and Television (2013-2018) and SARFT, the State Administration of Radio, Film, and Television (prior to 2013)
广目天	guang	tian	Virupaksa (on of the Four Heavenly Kings)
广结良缘	guang	yuan	to earn people's praise through one's good deeds (idiom)
广而告之	guang	zhi	to publicize widely
广藿香	guang	xiang	(botany) patchouli (Pogostemon cablin)
广西壮族自治区	guang	qu	Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, capital Nanning 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4] (short name 桂[Gui4])
广西省	guang	sheng	Guangxi Province, which in 1958 became Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1], capital Nanning 南寧|南宁[Nan2 ning2]
广角镜	guang	jing	wide-angle lens
广角镜头	guang	tou	wide angle camera shot
广阳区	guang	qu	Guangyang, a district of Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
广陵区	guang	qu	Guangling, a district of Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
广饶县	guang	xian	Guangrao, a county in Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
庄周梦蝶	zhuang	die	Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3] dreams of a butterfly (or is it the butterfly dreaming of Zhuangzi?)
庄河市	zhuang	shi	Zhuanghe, a county-level city in Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
庄浪县	zhuang	xian	Zhuanglang, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
庄稼人	zhuang	ren	(coll.) farmer
庄稼地	zhuang	di	crop land; arable land
庄稼户	zhuang	hu	wealthy farmer; landlord
庄稼户儿	zhuang	r	erhua variant of 莊稼戶|庄稼户[zhuang1 jia5 hu4]
庄稼汉	zhuang	han	peasant; farmer
庄稼活儿	zhuang	r	farm work
庆云县	qing	xian	Qingyun, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
庆元县	qing	xian	Qingyuan, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
庆历新政	qing	zheng	failed reform of Northern Song government in 1043
庆城县	qing	xian	Qingcheng, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
庆大霉素	qing	su	(pharmacology) gentamicin
庆安县	qing	xian	Qing'an, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
庆尚北道	qing	dao	North Gyeongsang Province, in east South Korea, capital Daegu 大邱[Da4 qiu1]
庆尚南道	qing	dao	South Gyeongsang Province, in southeast South Korea, capital Changwon 昌原[Chang1 yuan2]
庆尚道	qing	dao	Gyeongsang Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Gyeongsang Province 慶尚北道|庆尚北道[Qing4 shang4 bei3 dao4] and South Gyeongsang Province 慶尚南道|庆尚南道[Qing4 shang4 nan2 dao4]
庆祝会	qing	hui	celebration
庆阳市	qing	shi	Qingyang, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
庇护所	bi	suo	shelter; refuge; sanctuary
庇西特拉图	bi	tu	Pisistratus (-528 BC), tyrant (ruler) of Athens at different times between 561 BC and 528 BC
床上戏	chuang	xi	sex scene (in a movie etc)
床头柜	chuang	gui	bedside cabinet
床笫之事	chuang	shi	bedroom matters; sexual intercourse
床笫之私	chuang	si	intimate matters
序列号	xu	hao	serial number; product key (software)
庐山区	lu	qu	Lushan district of Jiujiang city 九江市, Jiangxi
庐山市	lu	shi	Lushan, a county-level city in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
庐江县	lu	xian	Lujiang, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
庐阳区	lu	qu	Luyang, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
库仑计	ku	ji	voltameter
库伦旗	ku	qi	Hure banner or Xüree khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
库克山	ku	shan	Mt Cook on New Zealand South Island, national park and highest peak
库克群岛	ku	dao	Cook Islands
库克船长	ku	zhang	Captain James Cook (1728-1779), British navigator and explorer
库姆塔格沙漠	ku	mo	Kumutage (or Kumtag) Desert, northwestern China
库存现金	ku	jin	cash in hand
库尔勒	ku	le	see 庫爾勒市|库尔勒市[Ku4 er3 le4 Shi4]
库尔勒市	ku	shi	Korla, a county-level city in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
库尔尼科娃	ku	wa	Anna Sergeevna Kournikova (1981-), Russian tennis star and glamor model
库尔德	ku	de	Kurd; Kurdish
库尔德人	ku	ren	Kurdish person or people
库尔德工人党	ku	dang	Kurdistan Worker's Party (PPK)
库尔德斯坦	ku	tan	Kurdistan
库尔斯克	ku	ke	Kursk (city)
库工党	ku	dang	abbr. for Kurdistan Workers' Party 庫爾德工人黨|库尔德工人党[Ku4 er3 de2 Gong1 ren2 dang3]
库布里克	ku	ke	Kubrick
库德斯坦	ku	tan	(Tw) Kurdistan
库拉索	ku	suo	Curaçao
库木吐拉千佛洞	ku	dong	Kumutula thousand-Buddha grotto in Kuqa, Xinjiang
库珀带	ku	dai	the Kuiper belt (in the outer reaches of the Solar system)
库肯霍夫公园	ku	yuan	Keukenhof, flower garden in Netherlands
库车市	ku	shi	Kuqa, a county-level city in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
库里提巴	ku	ba	Curitiba (city in Brazil)
库页岛	ku	dao	Sakhalin
库页岛柳莺	ku	ying	(bird species of China) Sakhalin leaf warbler (Phylloscopus borealoides)
库鲁病	ku	bing	kuru (medicine)
应仁之乱	ying	luan	Ōnin war 1467-1477 between factions of Ashikaga shogunate
应付自如	ying	ru	to handle matters with ease (idiom); to hold one's own
应付裕如	ying	ru	handling any occasion smoothly (idiom); equal to any situation
应付账款	ying	kuan	accounts payable
应付过去	ying	qu	to muddle through
应力场	ying	chang	stress field
应县木塔	ying	ta	the timber pagoda of the Fogong Temple in Ying County, Shanxi, built in 1056 (Song dynasty)
应变力	ying	li	adaptability; resourcefulness
应变数	ying	shu	(math.) dependent variable
应变管理	ying	li	change management (business)
应召女郎	ying	lang	call girl
应召站	ying	zhan	call girl center
应名儿	ying	r	erhua variant of 應名|应名[ying1 ming2]
应城市	ying	shi	Yingcheng, a county-level city in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
应声虫	ying	chong	yes-man; opinionless person
应天承运	ying	yun	lit. to respond to heaven and suit the times (idiom); to rule according to the will of heaven; the Divine Right of kings
应天顺时	ying	shi	lit. to respond to heaven and suit the times (idiom); to rule according to the will of heaven; the Divine Right of kings
应对如流	ying	liu	to respond fluently; to answer smartly
应届毕业生	ying	sheng	student graduating in the current year; recent graduate
应届生	ying	sheng	student graduating in the current academic year; current-year graduate; fresh graduate
应急待命	ying	ming	emergency standby; to be on standby
应急照射	ying	she	emergency exposure (nuclear energy)
应接不暇	ying	xia	more than one can attend to (idiom); deluged (with inquiries etc); overwhelmed (by the beauty of the scenery)
应收账款	ying	kuan	accounts receivable
应景儿	ying	r	according with the times; seasonal
应有尽有	ying	you	everything that should be here is here (idiom); all one can think of is on hand; to have all one needs
应机立断	ying	duan	to act on an opportunity (idiom); to take prompt advantage of a situation
应激反应	ying	ying	(physiological etc) stress
应激性	ying	xing	irritable; sensitive; excitable
应激源	ying	yuan	stressor
应用层	ying	ceng	application layer (computing)
应用平台	ying	tai	application platform (computing)
应用数学	ying	xue	applied mathematics
应用文	ying	wen	applied writing; writing for practical purposes (business letters, advertising etc)
应用物理	ying	li	applied physics
应用科学	ying	xue	applied science
应用程序	ying	xu	(computing) program; application
应用程序接口	ying	kou	application programming interface (API)
应用程序编程接口	ying	kou	application programming interface (API)
应用程式	ying	shi	(Tw) (computing) program; application
应用程式介面	ying	mian	application programming interface (API) (Tw)
应用软件	ying	jian	application software
应用软体	ying	ti	(Tw) application software
应聘者	ying	zhe	person taking a job; job applicant; CL:位[wei4]
应计基础	ying	chu	accruals basis (accounting)
应许之地	ying	di	Promised Land
应试教育	ying	yu	exam-oriented education; teaching to the test
应该的	ying	de	(polite response) you're welcome; just doing my duty; no problem
应运而生	ying	sheng	to emerge to meet a historic destiny (idiom); to arise at an opportune time; able to take advantage of an opportunity
应采儿	ying	er	Cherrie Ying Choi-Yi (1983–), actress
底夸克	di	ke	bottom quark (particle physics)
底朝天	di	tian	upside down; upturned
底栖有孔虫	di	chong	benthic foraminifera
底栖生物	di	wu	benthic organism
底格里斯	di	si	Tigris River, Iraq
底格里斯河	di	he	Tigris River, Iraq
底比斯	di	si	Thebes, place name in ancient Egypt; Thebes, ancient Greek city state
底特律	di	lv	Detroit, Michigan
庖牺氏	pao	shi	another name for 伏羲[Fu2 Xi1], consort of 女媧|女娲[Nu:3 wa1]
店小二	dian	er	(old) (in a tavern or inn etc) waiter; attendant
庚子国变	geng	bian	the crisis year of 1900 involving the Boxer uprising and the eight nation military invasion
府谷县	fu	xian	Fugu, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
庞加莱	pang	lai	Henri Poincaré (1854-1912), French mathematician, physicist and philosopher
庞巴迪	pang	di	Bombardier (surname and company name)
庞德街	pang	jie	Bond Street (London, England)
庞氏骗局	pang	ju	Ponzi scheme
庞然大物	pang	wu	(idiom) huge object; colossus
废品收购站	fei	zhan	salvage station; recycling center
废寝忘食	fei	shi	(idiom) to skip one's sleep and meals; to be completely wrapped up in one's work
废寝忘餐	fei	can	see 廢寢忘食|废寝忘食[fei4 qin3 wang4 shi2]
废寝食	fei	shi	to neglect sleep and food
废物点心	fei	xin	(coll.) a good-for-nothing; a loser
废物箱	fei	xiang	ash-bin; litter-bin
废藩置县	fei	xian	to abolish the feudal Han and introduce modern prefectures (refers to reorganization during Meiji Japan)
废话连篇	fei	pian	a bunch of nonsense; verbose and rambling
废铜烂铁	fei	tie	scrap metal; a pile of junk
度假区	du	qu	resort area; tourist zone (in China, typically state-designated for integrated tourism development)
度假村	du	cun	resort (vacation property)
度日如年	du	nian	a day drags past like a year (idiom); time hangs heavy; time crawls when one is wretched
度量衡	du	heng	measurement
座上客	zuo	ke	guest of honor
座上宾	zuo	bin	distinguished guest; honored guest
座右铭	zuo	ming	motto; maxim
座头市	zuo	shi	Zatoichi
座头鲸	zuo	jing	humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae)
座无虚席	zuo	xi	lit. a banquet with no empty seats; full house; capacity crowd
座标轴	zuo	zhou	coordinate axis
座生水母	zuo	mu	sessile medusa; sea anemone
座谈会	zuo	hui	conference; symposium; rap session
庵摩勒	an	le	see 餘甘子|余甘子[yu2 gan1 zi3]
庵摩落迦果	an	guo	see 餘甘子|余甘子[yu2 gan1 zi3]
庶吉士	shu	shi	title of the temporary position in the Hanlin Academy 翰林院[Han4 lin2 yuan4] conferred on meritorious candidates until the next examination
康乃狄克	kang	ke	Connecticut, US state (Tw)
康乃馨	kang	xin	carnation (Dianthus caryophyllus) (loanword)
康乐县	kang	xian	Kangle, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
康乾宗迦峰	kang	feng	Kachenjunga (Himalayan peak)
康乾盛世	kang	shi	booming and golden age of Qing dynasty (from Kang Xi to Qian Long emperors)
康保县	kang	xian	Kangbao, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
康奈尔	kang	er	Cornell (University)
康奈尔大学	kang	xue	Cornell University
康定市	kang	shi	Kangding, a county-level city in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
康巴地区	kang	qu	former Tibetan province of Kham, now split between Tibet and Sichuan
康巴藏区	kang	qu	former Kham province of Tibet, now split between Tibet and Sichuan
康平县	kang	xian	Kangping, a county in Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
康广仁	kang	ren	Kang Guangren (1867-1898), younger brother of Kang Youwei 康有為|康有为[Kang1 You3 wei2] and one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子 of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
康庄大道	kang	dao	broad and open road (idiom); fig. brilliant future prospects
康康舞	kang	wu	cancan (loanword)
康思维恩格	kang	ge	Kongsvinger (city in Hedemark, Norway)
康托尔	kang	er	(name) Cantor; Georg Cantor (1845–1918), German mathematician, founder of set theory
康拜因	kang	yin	(loanword) combine (i.e. combine harvester)
康斯坦察	kang	cha	Constanta (city in Romania)
康斯坦茨	kang	ci	Konstanz (Germany)
康普茶	kang	cha	(loanword) kombucha (fermented tea)
康有为	kang	wei	Kang Youwei (1858-1927), Confucian intellectual, educator and would-be reformer, main leader of the failed reform movement of 1898
康涅狄格	kang	ge	Connecticut, US state
康熙字典	kang	dian	the Kangxi Dictionary, named after the Kangxi Emperor, who in 1710 ordered its compilation, containing 47,035 single-character entries
康白度	kang	du	comprador (loanword)
康科德	kang	de	Concord (place name); Concord, capital of US state New Hampshire
康马县	kang	xian	Kangmar, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
庸人自扰	yong	rao	lit. silly people get their panties in a bunch (idiom); fig. to get upset over nothing; to make problems for oneself
庸俗化	yong	hua	debasement; vulgarization
庸庸碌碌	yong	lu	ordinary; mediocre
庸碌无能	yong	neng	mediocre and incompetent
廉政公署	lian	shu	Independent Commission Against Corruption, Hong Kong (ICAC)
廉江市	lian	shi	Lianjiang, a county-level city in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
廉租房	lian	fang	low-rent housing
廊坊市	lang	shi	Langfang, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
廖沫沙	liao	sha	Liao Mosha (1907-1990), journalist and communist propagandist, severely criticized and imprisoned for 10 years during the Cultural Revolution
延吉市	yan	shi	Yanji, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
延坪岛	yan	dao	Yeonpyeong island on Yellow Sea coast of Korea
延安市	yan	shi	Yan'an, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
延寿县	yan	xian	Yanshou, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
延展性	yan	xing	ductability
延川县	yan	xian	Yanchuan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
延平区	yan	qu	Yanping, a district of Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
延年益寿	yan	shou	(idiom) to prolong life; to extend lifespan
延庆区	yan	qu	Yanqing, a district of Beijing
延时摄影	yan	ying	time-lapse photography
延期付款	yan	kuan	to defer payment; to pay back over long term
延津县	yan	xian	Yanjin, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
延禧攻略	yan	lve	Story of Yanxi Palace (2018 TV series)
延误费	yan	fei	demurrage (shipping)
延边大学	yan	xue	Yanbian University (Jilin province)
延边州	yan	zhou	see 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
延边朝鲜族自治州	yan	zhou	Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
延长县	yan	xian	Yanchang, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
延长线	yan	xian	extension cord; extended line; powerstrip
延音线	yan	xian	tie (music)
延颈企踵	yan	zhong	to stand on tiptoe and crane one's neck (idiom); fig. to yearn for sth
廷巴克图	ting	tu	Timbuktoo (town and historical cultural center in Mali, a World Heritage site)
建三江	jian	jiang	Jiansanjiang, large-scale agricultural development in Sanjiang river plain in Heilongjiang
建党节	jian	jie	CCP Founding Day (July 1st)
建军节	jian	jie	Army Day (August 1)
建功立业	jian	ye	to achieve or accomplish goals
建华区	jian	qu	Jianhua, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
建始县	jian	xian	Jianshi, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
建宁县	jian	xian	Jianning, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
建安区	jian	qu	Jian'an, a district of Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
建屋互助会	jian	hui	building society (finance)
建平县	jian	xian	Jianping, a county in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
建德市	jian	shi	Jiande, a county-level city in Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
建成区	jian	qu	built-up area; urban area
建教合作	jian	zuo	cooperative education (Tw)
建文帝	jian	di	reign name of second Ming emperor, reigned 1398-1402, deposed in 1402
建昌县	jian	xian	Jianchang, a county in Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
建水县	jian	xian	Jianshui, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
建湖县	jian	xian	Jianhu, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
建瓯市	jian	shi	Jian'ou, a county-level city in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
建立时间	jian	jian	(electronics) setup time; (electronics) settling time
建立者	jian	zhe	founder
建筑业	jian	ye	building industry
建筑学	jian	xue	architectural; architecture
建筑工人	jian	ren	construction worker; builder
建筑师	jian	shi	architect
建筑物	jian	wu	building; structure; edifice
建筑群	jian	qun	building complex; cluster of buildings
建议售价	jian	jia	recommended retail price (RRP)
建设性	jian	xing	constructive; constructiveness
建造师	jian	shi	certified construction engineer
建邺区	jian	qu	Jianye, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
建阳区	jian	qu	Jianyang, a district of Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
廿八躔	nian	chan	the twenty-eight constellations; also written 二十八宿[er4 shi2 ba1 xiu4]
廿四史	nian	shi	twenty four dynastic histories (or 25 or 26 in modern editions); same as 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3]
开三次方	kai	fang	(math.) to extract a cube root
开业大吉	kai	ji	celebration on opening a business
开伯尔	kai	er	Khyber province of Pakistan; Northwest Frontier province
开伯尔山口	kai	kou	Khyber pass (between Pakistand and Afghanistan)
开倒车	kai	che	to drive in reverse; fig. to take a backward step; retrogressive
开创性	kai	xing	innovative
开化县	kai	xian	Kaihua, a county in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
开区间	kai	jian	open interval (in calculus)
开卷有益	kai	yi	lit. opening a book is profitable (idiom); the benefits of education
开原市	kai	shi	Kaiyuan, a county-level city in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
开发人员	kai	yuan	developer
开发区	kai	qu	development zone
开发周期	kai	qi	development cycle; development period; also written 開發週期|开发周期
开发商	kai	shang	developer (of real estate, a commercial product etc)
开发者	kai	zhe	developer
开发银行	kai	hang	development bank
开口子	kai	zi	a dike breaks; fig. to provide facilities (for evil deeds); to open the floodgates
开口成脏	kai	zang	(Internet slang) to use foul language (pun on 出口成章[chu1 kou3 cheng2 zhang1])
开台锣鼓	kai	gu	opening gong; gong strokes announcing start of opera performance
开司米	kai	mi	(loanword) cashmere
开后门	kai	men	to open the back door; fig. under the counter; to do a secret or dishonest deal
开国元勋	kai	xun	variant of 開國元勳|开国元勋, founding figure (of country or dynasty); founding father; fig. also used of company, school etc
开国功臣	kai	chen	outstanding founding minister (title given to reward loyal general or vassal of new dynasty or state)
开场白	kai	bai	prologue of play; opening remarks; preamble (of speeches, articles etc)
开城市	kai	shi	Kaesong or Gaeseong city in southwest North Korea, close to the border with South Korea and a special economic zone for South Korean companies
开塞露	kai	lu	glycerin enema
开士米	kai	mi	(loanword) cashmere
开外挂	kai	gua	see 開掛|开挂[kai1 gua4]
开夜车	kai	che	to burn the midnight oil; to work late into the night
开大油门	kai	men	to open the throttle; to accelerate; to let her rip
开天窗	kai	chuang	to leave a blank to mark censored area
开天辟地	kai	di	(lit.) to split heaven and earth apart (refers to the Pangu 盤古|盘古[Pan2 gu3] creation myth) (idiom); (fig.) unprecedented; first of its kind
开宗明义	kai	yi	to declare at the outset (idiom)
开封市	kai	shi	Kaifeng, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
开封府	kai	fu	Kaifeng as the capital of Northern Song dynasty
开小会	kai	hui	to whisper and chat (instead of listening during a meeting or lecture)
开小差	kai	chai	to be absent-minded; to desert; to abscond from the army
开小灶	kai	zao	to give preferential treatment; to give special attention
开尔文	kai	wen	Lord Kelvin 1824-1907, British physicist (William Thomson); Kelvin (temperature scale)
开山刀	kai	dao	machete
开山祖师	kai	shi	founding master of a monastery; founder; originator
开山鼻祖	kai	zu	founder
开州区	kai	qu	Kaizhou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
开市客	kai	ke	Costco (warehouse club chain)
开幕典礼	kai	li	opening ceremony
开幕式	kai	shi	opening ceremony
开幕词	kai	ci	opening speech (at a conference)
开平区	kai	qu	Kaiping, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
开平市	kai	shi	Kaiping, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
开弓不放箭	kai	jian	lit. to draw the bow without shooting the arrow (idiom); fig. to bluff; to be all talk and no action
开弓没有回头箭	kai	jian	lit. once you've shot the arrow, there's no getting it back (idiom); fig. once you started sth, there's no turning back; to have to finish what one started
开心果	kai	guo	pistachio nuts; fig. amusing person
开心颜	kai	yan	to rejoice; smiling
开快车	kai	che	to drive at high speed; (fig.) rush through one's work
开房间	kai	jian	to rent a room in a hotel; (of two people who are not married to each other) to rent a room for sex
开拓性	kai	xing	pioneering; groundbreaking
开拓者	kai	zhe	pioneer
开放式系统	kai	tong	open system(s)
开放式网络	kai	luo	open network
开放性	kai	xing	openness
开放源代码	kai	ma	see 開放源碼|开放源码[kai1 fang4 yuan2 ma3]
开放源码	kai	ma	(computing) open-source
开放源码软件	kai	jian	open-source software (OSS)
开放系统	kai	tong	open system
开放系统互连	kai	lian	open systems interconnection; OSI
开斋节	kai	jie	(Islam) Eid al-Fitr, festival that marks the end of Ramadan
开明君主	kai	zhu	enlightened sovereign
开普勒	kai	le	Johannes Kepler (1571-1630), German astronomer and formulator of Kepler's laws of planetary motion
开普敦	kai	dun	Cape Town (city in South Africa)
开曼群岛	kai	dao	Cayman Islands
开水壶	kai	hu	kettle
开江县	kai	xian	Kaijiang, a county in Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
开河期	kai	qi	thawing and opening up of frozen river in spring
开源节流	kai	liu	lit. to open a water source and reduce outflow (idiom); to increase income and save on spending; to broaden the sources of income and economize on expenditure
开源软件	kai	jian	open-source software
开漳圣王	kai	wang	Sacred King, founder of Zhangzhou, posthumous title of Tang dynasty general Chen Yuanguang (657-711) 陳元光|陈元光[Chen2 Yuan2 guang1]
开玩笑	kai	xiao	to play a joke; to make fun of; to joke
开瓶器	kai	qi	bottle opener
开瓶费	kai	fei	corkage fee
开疆拓土	kai	tu	(idiom) to expand one's territory; to conquer new lands; (fig.) to expand one's business into new markets
开盘汇率	kai	lv	opening exchange rate
开眼界	kai	jie	to broaden one's horizons
开福区	kai	qu	Kaifu, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
开红盘	kai	pan	(of a store) to open for business for the first time in the New Year; (of a business) to be profitable; (of a stock market) to rise
开绿灯	kai	deng	to give the green light; to give the go-ahead
开罐器	kai	qi	can opener
开罗大学	kai	xue	Cairo University
开罚单	kai	dan	to issue an infringement notice
开胃菜	kai	cai	starter; appetizer
开胃酒	kai	jiu	aperitif wine
开脑洞	kai	dong	to blow people's minds with highly imaginative, bizarre ideas
开脱罪责	kai	ze	to absolve sb from guilt; to exonerate; to exculpate
开膛手杰克	kai	ke	Jack the Ripper
开花儿	kai	r	erhua variant of 開花|开花[kai1 hua1]
开花结实	kai	shi	see 開花結果|开花结果[kai1 hua1 jie1 guo3]
开花结果	kai	guo	(lit.) to blossom and bear fruit (idiom); (fig.) to come to fruition; to yield favorable results
开花衣	kai	yi	to open a bale of cotton
开裆裤	kai	ku	open-crotch pants (for toddlers)
开襟衫	kai	shan	cardigan
开诚布公	kai	gong	variant of 開誠布公|开诚布公[kai1 cheng2 bu4 gong1]
开诚相见	kai	jian	candid and open (idiom)
开足马力	kai	li	to accelerate at full power (idiom); at full speed; fig. to work as hard as possible
开路先锋	kai	feng	pioneer; trailblazer
开车人	kai	ren	driver; person driving a vehicle
开车族	kai	zu	motorists
开辟者	kai	zhe	pioneer; groundbreaker
开运竹	kai	zhu	lucky bamboo (Dracaena sanderiana)
开远市	kai	shi	Kaiyuan, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
开都河	kai	he	Kaidu River, Xinjiang
开酒费	kai	fei	corkage fee
开锣喝道	kai	dao	to clear a street by banging gongs and shouting loudly (idiom)
开门揖盗	kai	dao	leaving the door open invites the thief (idiom); to invite disaster by giving evildoers a free hand
开门杀	kai	sha	dooring (accident caused by opening a vehicle door into traffic)
开门炮	kai	pao	firecrackers set off at the stroke of midnight on New Year's Day (a Chinese tradition)
开门红	kai	hong	a good beginning
开门见山	kai	shan	lit. to open the door and see the mountain; fig. to get right to the point (idiom)
开闭幕式	kai	shi	opening and closing ceremonies
开阳县	kai	xian	Kaiyang, a county in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
开除党籍	kai	ji	to expel from the Party
开除学籍	kai	ji	to expel from school
开高叉	kai	cha	slit dress
开鲁县	kai	xian	Kailu, a county in Tongliao City 通遼市|通辽市[Tong1 liao2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
开麦拉	kai	la	(Tw) (loanword) camera
开黑店	kai	dian	lit. to open an inn that kills and robs guests (esp. in traditional fiction); fig. to carry out a scam; to run a protection racket
异丁烷	yi	wan	isobutane
异丁苯丙酸	yi	suan	Ibuprofen or Nurofen; nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), trade names Advil, Motrin, Nuprin etc, used as analgesic and antipyretic, e.g. for arthritis sufferers; also called 布洛芬
异世界	yi	jie	(ACG) another world; parallel universe (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 異世界 "isekai")
异丙苯	yi	ben	(chemistry) isopropylbenzene C9H12 (aka cumene)
异丙醇	yi	chun	isopropanol; isopropyl alcohol C3H8O
异乎寻常	yi	chang	unusual; extraordinary
异乡人	yi	ren	stranger
异亮氨酸	yi	suan	isoleucine (Ile), an essential amino acid
异体字	yi	zi	variant Chinese character
异养生物	yi	wu	(biology) heterotroph
异军突起	yi	qi	to emerge as a new force to be reckoned with (idiom)
异化作用	yi	yong	catabolism (biology); metabolic breaking down and waste disposal; dissimilation
异卵双胞胎	yi	tai	fraternal twins
异口同声	yi	sheng	different mouths, same voice; to speak in unison (idiom)
异咯嗪	yi	qin	isoalloxazine (name of organic chemical)
异国他乡	yi	xiang	foreign lands and places (idiom); living as expatriate
异国情调	yi	diao	exoticism; local color; exotic
异地恋	yi	lian	long-distance romance; long-distance relationship
异形词	yi	ci	variant spelling of the same Chinese word, e.g. 筆劃|笔划[bi3 hua4] and 筆畫|笔画[bi3 hua4]; exact synonym and homonym written with different characters
异性性接触	yi	chu	heterosexual sex
异性恋	yi	lian	heterosexuality; heterosexual love
异性恋主义	yi	yi	heterosexism
异性相吸	yi	xi	opposite polarities attract; (fig.) opposite sexes attract; opposites attract
异想天开	yi	kai	(idiom) to imagine the wildest thing; to indulge in fantasy
异戊二烯	yi	xi	isoprene
异戊巴比妥	yi	tuo	amobarbital (drug) (loanword)
异戊橡胶	yi	jiao	isoprene rubber
异教徒	yi	tu	member of another religion; heathen; pagan
异星人	yi	ren	space alien; extraterrestrial
异曲同工	yi	gong	different tunes played with equal skill (idiom); different methods leading to the same result; different approach but equally satisfactory outcome
异构体	yi	ti	isomer (chemistry)
异株荨麻	yi	ma	common nettle (Urtica dioica)
异步传输模式	yi	shi	asynchronous transfer mode; ATM
异源多倍体	yi	ti	allopolyploid (polyploid with chromosomes of different species)
异特龙	yi	long	allosaurus
异病同治	yi	zhi	to use the same method to treat different diseases (TCM)
异端者	yi	zhe	a heretic
异色树莺	yi	ying	(bird species of China) aberrant bush warbler (Horornis flavolivaceus)
异花授粉	yi	fen	(botany) cross-pollination
异装癖	yi	pi	transvestism
异见者	yi	zhe	dissident
异议人士	yi	shi	dissident
异议分子	yi	zi	dissident
异议者	yi	zhe	dissenter; dissident
异读词	yi	ci	word having alternative pronunciations
异质体	yi	ti	variant
异面直线	yi	xian	(math.) skew lines
异频雷达收发机	yi	ji	transponder; electronic device that responds to a radio code
异食癖	yi	pi	pica (medicine)
异香扑鼻	yi	bi	exotic odors assail the nostrils (idiom)
弃之如敝屣	qi	xi	to toss away like a pair of worn-out shoes (idiom)
弃保潜逃	qi	tao	to jump bail
弃农经商	qi	shang	to abandon farming and become a businessman (idiom)
弃恶从善	qi	shan	to renounce evil and turn to virtue (idiom)
弃旧图新	qi	xin	to turn over a new leaf
弃暗投明	qi	ming	to renounce the dark and seek the light; to give up one's wrong way of life and turn to a better one
弃约背盟	qi	meng	to abrogate an agreement; to break one's oath (idiom)
弃若敝屣	qi	xi	to throw away like worn out shoes
弃邪归正	qi	zheng	to give up evil and return to virtue
弄不懂	nong	dong	unable to make sense of (sth)
弄不清	nong	qing	unable to figure out
弄假成真	nong	zhen	pretense that turns into reality (idiom); to play at make-believe, but accidentally make it true
弄到手	nong	shou	to get in hand; to get (one's) hands on; to get hold of (in the sense of to acquire)
弄嘴弄舌	nong	she	to cause a dispute through boastful gossip (idiom)
弄岗穗鹛	nong	mei	(bird species of China) Nonggang babbler (Stachyris nonggangensis)
弄巧反拙	nong	zhuo	see 弄巧成拙[nong4 qiao3 cheng2 zhuo1]
弄巧成拙	nong	zhuo	to overreach oneself; to try to be clever and end up with egg on one's face
弄明白	nong	bai	to figure out how to do something
弄虚作假	nong	jia	to practice fraud (idiom); by trickery
弋江区	yi	qu	Yijiang, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
弋阳县	yi	xian	Yiyang, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
弓弦儿	gong	r	bowstring
弓弩手	gong	shou	crossbow shooter
弓形虫	gong	chong	Toxoplasma gondii
弓浆虫	gong	chong	Toxoplasma gondii
弓箭手	gong	shou	archer
弓箭步	gong	bu	forward lunge (stance used in martial arts, fitness training etc)
弓长岭	gong	ling	see 弓長嶺區|弓长岭区[Gong1 chang2 ling3 Qu1]
弓长岭区	gong	qu	Gongchangling, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
引人入胜	yin	sheng	to enchant; fascinating
引人注意	yin	yi	to attract attention
引人注目	yin	mu	to attract attention; eye-catching; conspicuous
引以为傲	yin	ao	to be intensely proud of sth (idiom)
引以为憾	yin	han	to consider sth regrettable (idiom)
引以为戒	yin	jie	to take sth as a warning (idiom); to draw a lesson from a case where things turned out badly
引以为荣	yin	rong	to regard it as an honor (idiom)
引以为鉴	yin	jian	to take a lesson from (an adverse experience)
引体向上	yin	shang	chin-up (physical exercise)
引入迷途	yin	tu	to mislead; to lead astray
引力场	yin	chang	gravitational field
引力波	yin	bo	gravitational wave
引号完	yin	wan	unquote; end of quote
引号完毕	yin	bi	unquote; end of quote
引吭高歌	yin	ge	to sing at the top of one's voice (idiom)
引咎辞职	yin	zhi	to admit responsibility and resign
引导员	yin	yuan	usher; guide
引导师	yin	shi	(workshop) facilitator
引导扇区	yin	qu	boot sector
引擎盖	yin	gai	(car) hood; bonnet
引水入墙	yin	qiang	lit. to lead the water through the wall; to ask for trouble (idiom)
引水工程	yin	cheng	water-induction engineering; irrigation engineering
引火柴	yin	chai	kindling
引火烧身	yin	shen	to invite trouble
引火线	yin	xian	fuse (for explosives); (fig.) proximate cause; the last straw
引爆点	yin	dian	tipping point
引爆装置	yin	zhi	detonator
引狗入寨	yin	zhai	lit. to lead the dog into the village (idiom); fig. to introduce a potential source of trouble
引狼入室	yin	shi	(lit.) to show the wolf into the house (idiom); (fig.) to introduce a potential source of trouble
引玉之砖	yin	zhuan	lit. a brick thrown to prompt others to produce a jade (idiom); fig. a modest suggestion intended to prompt others to come forward with better ideas
引用句	yin	ju	quotation
引申义	yin	yi	extended meaning (of an expression); derived sense
引线框架	yin	jia	(electronics) lead frame
引线穿针	yin	zhen	to thread a needle; (fig.) to act as a go-between
引经据典	yin	dian	lit. to quote the classics; to quote chapter and verse (idiom)
引而不发	yin	fa	to pull the bow without shooting (idiom from Mencius); ready and waiting for action; to go through the motions; to practice
引蛇出洞	yin	dong	lit. to pull a snake from its hole; to expose a malefactor (idiom)
引颈就戮	yin	lu	to extend one's neck in preparation for execution (idiom)
引鬼上门	yin	men	lit. to invite the devil to one's house (idiom); fig. to introduce a potential source of trouble
弗兰克	fu	ke	Frank (name)
弗兰兹	fu	zi	Franz (name)
弗兰西斯	fu	si	Francis (name)
弗吉尼亚	fu	ya	variant of 弗吉尼亞州|弗吉尼亚州; Virginia, US state
弗拉基米尔	fu	er	Vladimir
弗拉明戈	fu	ge	flamenco (Tw) (loanword)
弗拉芒	fu	mang	Flemish, inhabitant of Flanders (Belgium)
弗拉门戈	fu	ge	flamenco (loanword)
弗格森	fu	sen	(surname) Ferguson
弗氏鸥	fu	ou	(bird species of China) Franklin's gull (Leucophaeus pipixcan)
弗洛伊德	fu	de	Floyd (name); Freud (name); Dr Sigmund Freud (1856-1939), the founder of psychoanalysis
弗洛勒斯岛	fu	dao	Flores, Indonesia; also written 弗洛里斯島|弗洛里斯岛[Fu2 luo4 li3 si1 dao3]
弗洛姆	fu	mu	Fromm (psychoanalyst)
弗洛里斯岛	fu	dao	Flores, Indonesia; also written 弗洛勒斯島|弗洛勒斯岛[Fu2 luo4 lei1 si1 dao3]
弗罗茨瓦夫	fu	fu	Wroclaw, Polish city
弗莱威厄斯	fu	si	Flavius (Roman historian of 1st century AD)
弗莱福兰	fu	lan	Flevoland, province in Netherlands
弗迪南	fu	nan	Ferdinand (name)
弗里得里希	fu	xi	Friedrich (name)
弗里德里希	fu	xi	Friedrich (name)
弗里敦	fu	dun	Freetown, capital of Sierra Leone
弗里斯兰	fu	lan	Friesland, province of the Netherlands
弗里曼	fu	man	(surname) Freeman
弗雷德里克	fu	ke	Frederick (name)
弗雷德里克顿	fu	dun	Fredericton, capital of New Brunswick, Canada
弛张热	chi	re	remittent fever
弟兄们	di	men	brothers; comrades; men
张三李四	zhang	si	(lit.) Zhang Three and Li Four (idiom); (fig.) any Tom, Dick or Harry
张三李四王五赵六	zhang	liu	(four proverbial names) Tom, Dick and Harry
张之洞	zhang	dong	Zhang Zhidong (1837-1909), prominent politician in late Qing
张伯伦	zhang	lun	Chamberlain (name); Wilt Chamberlain (1936-1999), US basketball player
张作霖	zhang	lin	Zhang Zuolin (c. 1873-1928), warlord of Manchuria 1916-1928
张僧繇	zhang	you	Zhang Sengyou (active c. 490-540), one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
张冠李戴	zhang	dai	lit. to put Zhang's hat on Li's head; to attribute sth to the wrong person (idiom); to confuse one thing with another
张勋复辟	zhang	bi	Manchu Restoration of 1917, an attempt by General Zhang Xun 張勳|张勋[Zhang1 Xun1] to reinstate the monarchy in China by restoring abdicated emperor Puyi 溥儀|溥仪[Pu3 yi2] to the throne
张北县	zhang	xian	Zhangbei, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
张口结舌	zhang	she	agape and tongue-tied (idiom); at a loss for words; gaping and speechless
张国焘	zhang	tao	Zhang Guotao (1897-1979), Chinese communist leader in the 1920s and 1930s, defected to Guomindang in 1938
张国荣	zhang	rong	Leslie Cheung (1956-2003), Hong Kong singer and actor
张大千	zhang	qian	Chang Dai-chien or Zhang Daqian (1899-1983), one of the greatest Chinese artists of the 20th century
张天翼	zhang	yi	Zhang Tianyi (1906-1985), children's writer, author of prize-winning fairy tale Secret of the Magic Gourd 寶葫蘆的秘密|宝葫芦的秘密[Bao3 hu2 lu5 de5 Mi4 mi4]
张太雷	zhang	lei	Zhang Tailei (1898-1927), founding member of Chinese communist party
张学友	zhang	you	Jacky Cheung or Hok Yau Jacky (1961-), Cantopop and film star
张学良	zhang	liang	Zhang Xueliang (1901-2001) son of Fengtian clique warlord, then senior general for the Nationalists and subsequently for the People's Liberation Army
张家口	zhang	kou	see 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4]
张家口市	zhang	shi	Zhangjiakou, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
张家川	zhang	chuan	see 張家川回族自治縣|张家川回族自治县[Zhang1 jia1 chuan1 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
张家川县	zhang	xian	see 張家川回族自治縣|张家川回族自治县[Zhang1 jia1 chuan1 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
张家川回族自治县	zhang	xian	Zhangjiachuan Hui Autonomous County, in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
张家港	zhang	gang	see 張家港市|张家港市[Zhang1 jia1 gang3 Shi4]
张家港市	zhang	shi	Zhangjiagang, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
张家界	zhang	jie	see 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 Shi4]
张家界市	zhang	shi	Zhangjiajie, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
张家长李家短	zhang	duan	lit. the Zhangs are better off than the Lis (idiom); to gossip about the neighbors
张居正	zhang	zheng	Zhang Juzheng (1525-1582), Grand Secretary during the Ming dynasty, credited with bringing the dynasty to its apogee
张店区	zhang	qu	Zhangdian, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
张廷玉	zhang	yu	Zhang Tingyu (1672-1755), Qing politician, senior minister to three successive emperors, oversaw compilation of History of the Ming Dynasty 明史[Ming2 shi3] and the Kangxi Dictionary 康熙字典[Kang1 xi1 Zi4 dian3]
张德江	zhang	jiang	Zhang Dejiang (1946-), PRC politician
张志新	zhang	xin	Zhang Zhixin (1930-1975) female revolutionary and martyr, who followed the true Marxist-Leninist line as a party member, and was arrested in 1969, then executed in 1975 after opposing the counterrevolutionary party-usurping conspiracies of Lin Biao and the Gang of Four, and only rehabilitated posthumously in 1979
张怡宁	zhang	ning	Zhang Yining (1981-), PRC female table tennis player and Olympic gold medalist
张惠妹	zhang	mei	A-Mei, aka Gulilai Amit (1972-), aboriginal Taiwanese pop singer
张成泽	zhang	ze	Jang Song-taek (1946-2013), brother-in-law of Kim Jong-il 金正日[Jin1 Zheng4 ri4], uncle and mentor of Kim Jong-un 金正恩[Jin1 Zheng4 en1], in 2013 accused of being a counter-revolutionary and executed
张择端	zhang	duan	Zhang Zeduan (1085-1145), Song dynasty painter
张掖市	zhang	shi	Zhangye, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
张易之	zhang	zhi	Zhang Yizhi (-705), Tang dynasty politician and favorite of Empress Wu Zetian 武則天|武则天[Wu3 Ze2 tian1]
张春帆	zhang	fan	Zhang Chunfan (-1935), late Qing novelist, author of The Nine-tailed Turtle 九尾龜|九尾龟
张春桥	zhang	qiao	Zhang Chunqiao (1917-2005), one of the Gang of Four
张曼玉	zhang	yu	Maggie Cheung (1964-), Hong Kong actress
张柏芝	zhang	zhi	Cecilia Cheung (1980-), Hong Kong actress and pop singer
张治中	zhang	zhong	Zhang Zhizhong (1890-1969), National Revolutionary Army general
张湾区	zhang	qu	Zhangwan, a district of Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
张灯结彩	zhang	cai	to be decorated with lanterns and colored banners (idiom)
张爱玲	zhang	ling	Eileen Chang (1920-1995), famous Chinese-American novelist
张牙舞爪	zhang	zhao	to bare fangs and brandish claws (idiom); to make threatening gestures
张献忠	zhang	zhong	Zhang Xianzhong (1606-1647), leader of a late-Ming peasant revolt
张王李赵	zhang	zhao	(idiom) any Tom, Dick or Harry; anyone
张皇失措	zhang	cuo	panic-stricken (idiom); to be in a flustered state; also written 張惶失措|张惶失措[zhang1 huang2 shi1 cuo4]
张纯如	zhang	ru	Iris Chang (1968–2004), Chinese American author of "The Rape of Nanking"
张自忠	zhang	zhong	Zhang Zizhong (1891-1940), Chinese National Revolutionary Army general during the Second Sino-Japanese War
张自烈	zhang	lie	Zhang Zilie (1597-1673), Ming dynasty scholar, author of Zhengzitong 正字通[Zheng4 zi4 tong1]
张艺谋	zhang	mou	Zhang Yimou (1950-), PRC film director
张若虚	zhang	xu	Zhang Ruoxu (c. 660-720), Tang dynasty poet, author of yuefu poem River on a spring night 春江花月夜
张荫桓	zhang	huan	Zhang Yinhuan (1837-1900), late Qing politician and senior Chinese diplomat
张闻天	zhang	tian	Zhang Wentian (1900-1976), CCP party leader and theorist
张静初	zhang	chu	Zhang Jingchu (1980-), PRC actress
张韶涵	zhang	han	Angela Chang (1982-), Taiwanese pop singer and actress
张飞打岳飞	zhang	fei	lit. Zhang Fei fights Yue Fei; fig. an impossible combination; an impossible turn of events (idiom)
张高丽	zhang	li	Zhang Gaoli (1946-), PRC politician
弥勒佛	mi	fo	Maitreya; the Bodhisattva that will be the next to come after Shakyamuni Buddha
弥勒市	mi	shi	Mile, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
弥勒菩萨	mi	sa	Maitreya Bodhisattva
弥天大谎	mi	huang	a pack of lies (idiom)
弥渡县	mi	xian	Midu, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
弥漫星云	mi	yun	diffuse nebula
弥留之际	mi	ji	on one's deathbed; at the point of death
弥赛亚	mi	ya	Messiah
弥足珍贵	mi	gui	extremely precious; valuable
弥迦书	mi	shu	Book of Micah
弦乐器	xian	qi	string instrument
弦乐队	xian	dui	string orchestra
弦切角	xian	jiao	chord angle (i.e. angle a chord of a curve makes to the tangent)
弦外之响	xian	xiang	see 弦外之音[xian2 wai4 zhi1 yin1]
弦外之意	xian	yi	see 弦外之音[xian2 wai4 zhi1 yin1]
弦外之音	xian	yin	overtone (music); (fig.) connotation; implied meaning
弦月窗	xian	chuang	a narrow slit window; a lunette
弦理论	xian	lun	string theory (physics)
弦而鼓之	xian	zhi	to put strings on the zither, then play it (line from a Ming dynasty text by 劉伯溫|刘伯温[Liu2 Bo2 wen1]); (fig.) to play music
弦鸣乐器	xian	qi	string instrument
弧光灯	hu	deng	arc lamp
弯嘴滨鹬	wan	yu	(bird species of China) curlew sandpiper (Calidris ferruginea)
弯弯曲曲	wan	qu	curved; meandering; zigzagging
弯曲度	wan	du	curvature; camber
弯曲空间	wan	jian	curved space
弯月形透镜	wan	jing	meniscus lens
弯液面	wan	mian	meniscus (physics)
弯管面	wan	mian	elbow pasta
弯腰驼背	wan	bei	slouch; stoop; poor posture
弯道超车	wan	che	to overtake on a bend (driving); (fig.) taking opportunity of tight corners to make swift progress (economy etc)
弱不禁风	ruo	feng	(lit.) too weak to stand up to the wind (idiom); (fig.) extremely delicate; fragile
弱作用	ruo	yong	(physics) weak interaction
弱作用力	ruo	li	the weak force (in particle physics)
弱势群体	ruo	ti	disadvantaged social groups (e.g. the handicapped); the economically and politically marginalized; the dispossessed
弱电统一	ruo	yi	electro-weak interaction in fermion particle physics
弱相互作用	ruo	yong	weak interaction (in particle physics); weak force
弱肉强食	ruo	shi	(lit.) the weak are prey to the strong (idiom); (fig.) the law of the jungle
弱音踏板	ruo	ban	soft pedal (on piano); una corda pedal
弹丸之地	dan	di	(idiom) tiny speck of land; small area
弹冠相庆	tan	qing	lit. to flick dust off sb's cap (idiom); to celebrate an official appointment; to congratulate and celebrate (promotion, graduation etc)
弹子锁	dan	suo	pin tumbler lock; spring lock
弹射座椅	tan	yi	ejection seat
弹射座舱	tan	cang	ejection capsule (cabin)
弹尽援绝	dan	jue	out of ammunition and no hope of reinforcements (idiom); in desperate straits
弹尽粮绝	dan	jue	out of ammunition and no food left (idiom); in desperate straits
弹性形变	tan	bian	elastic deformation
弹性模量	tan	liang	modulus of elasticity; coefficient of restitution
弹拨乐	tan	yue	plucked string music
弹拨乐器	tan	qi	plucked string instrument; CL:件[jian4]
弹指一挥间	tan	jian	in a flash (idiom)
弹指之间	tan	jian	(idiom) in a flash; instantly
弹涂鱼	tan	yu	mudskipper (amphibious fish)
弹珠台	dan	tai	pinball
弹珠机	dan	ji	pachinko machine
弹球盘	tan	pan	pachinko
弹痕累累	dan	lei	bullet-riddled
弹簧刀	tan	dao	flick knife; switchblade; spring-loaded knife
弹簧垫圈	tan	quan	spring washer
弹簧秤	tan	cheng	spring balance
弹簧锁	tan	suo	spring lock
弹簧门	tan	men	swing door
弹药库	dan	ku	ammunition dump
弹药补给站	dan	zhan	ammunition depot
弹跳板	tan	ban	springboard
弹道导弹	dan	dan	ballistic missile
强中更有强中手	qiang	shou	see 強中自有強中手|强中自有强中手[qiang2 zhong1 zi4 you3 qiang2 zhong1 shou3]
强中自有强中手	qiang	shou	(saying) however strong you are, there is always someone stronger
强买强卖	qiang	mai	to force sb to buy or sell; to trade using coercion
强人所难	qiang	nan	to force someone to do something
强作用	qiang	yong	strong interaction (governing hadrons in nuclear physics)
强作用力	qiang	li	the strong force (in nuclear physics)
强力胶	qiang	jiao	superglue
强奸犯	qiang	fan	rapist
强奸罪	qiang	zui	rape
强将手下无弱兵	qiang	bing	there are no poor soldiers under a good general (idiom)
强弩之末	qiang	mo	(lit.) an arrow at the end of its flight (idiom); (fig.) spent force
强心剂	qiang	ji	cardiac stimulant
强心针	qiang	zhen	heart-strengthening shot; fig. a shot in the arm
强扭的瓜不甜	qiang	tian	lit. if you have to use force to break a melon off the vine, it won't taste sweet (because it's only when the melon is ripe that it can be removed with just a slight twist) (idiom); fig. if sth is not meant to be, it's no use trying to force it to happen
强有力	qiang	li	strong; forceful
强烈反对	qiang	dui	to oppose strongly; violently opposed to
强生公司	qiang	si	Johnson & Johnson
强直性脊柱炎	qiang	yan	ankylosing spondylitis; Bechterew’s disease
强相互作用	qiang	yong	strong interaction (in particle physics); strong force
强硬态度	qiang	du	unyielding attitude
强硬派	qiang	pai	hardline faction; hawks
强硬立场	qiang	chang	tough position
强脚树莺	qiang	ying	(bird species of China) brown-flanked bush warbler (Horornis fortipes)
强词夺理	qiang	li	to twist words and force logic (idiom); sophistry; loud rhetoric making up for fallacious argument
强调色	qiang	se	accent color
强身健体	qiang	ti	to keep fit and healthy
强辩到底	qiang	di	to argue endlessly; to try to have the last word
强迫劳动	qiang	dong	forced labor (as punishment in criminal case)
强迫性	qiang	xing	compulsive; obsessive
强迫性储物症	qiang	zheng	compulsive hoarding
强迫性性行为	qiang	wei	sexual obsession
强迫症	qiang	zheng	obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD)
强迫观念	qiang	nian	compelling notion; obsession
强音踏板	qiang	ban	loud pedal (on piano); sustaining pedal
强颜欢笑	qiang	xiao	to pretend to look happy; to force oneself to smile
强龙不压地头蛇	qiang	she	lit. strong dragon cannot repress a snake (idiom); fig. a local gangster who is above the law
归因理论	gui	lun	attribution theory (psychology)
归属感	gui	gan	sense of belonging
归属权	gui	quan	right of attribution
归心似箭	gui	jian	with one's heart set on speeding home (idiom)
归根到底	gui	di	after all; in the final analysis; ultimately
归根究底	gui	di	(idiom) in the final analysis
归根结底	gui	di	in the final analysis; ultimately
归根结柢	gui	di	variant of 歸根結底|归根结底[gui1 gen1 jie2 di3]
归根结蒂	gui	di	ultimately; in the final analysis; after all
归真返璞	gui	pu	see 返璞歸真|返璞归真[fan3 pu2 gui1 zhen1]
归纳推理	gui	li	inductive reasoning
归纳法	gui	fa	induction (method of deduction in logic)
归谬法	gui	fa	reductio ad absurdum; arguing by contradiction; also called 反證法|反证法
归零地	gui	di	Ground Zero
当一天和尚撞一天钟	dang	zhong	see 做一天和尚撞一天鐘|做一天和尚撞一天钟[zuo4 yi1 tian1 he2 shang5 zhuang4 yi1 tian1 zhong1]
当且仅当	dang	dang	if and only if
当世无双	dang	shuang	unequalled in his time
当之无愧	dang	kui	fully deserving, without any reservations (idiom); entirely worthy (of a title, honor etc)
当之有愧	dang	kui	to feel undeserving of the praise or the honor
当事人	dang	ren	persons involved or implicated; party (to an affair)
当事国	dang	guo	the countries involved
当事者	dang	zhe	the person involved; the people holding power
当仁不让	dang	rang	to be unwilling to pass on one's responsibilities to others
当代史	dang	shi	contemporary history
当代新儒家	dang	jia	Contemporary New Confucianism; see 新儒家[Xin1 Ru2 jia1]
当务之急	dang	ji	(idiom) top priority job; a matter of the greatest urgency
当回事	dang	shi	to take seriously (often with negative expression: "don't take it too seriously"); to treat conscientiously
当回事儿	dang	r	erhua variant of 當回事|当回事[dang4 hui2 shi4]
当地居民	dang	min	a local person; the local population
当地时间	dang	jian	local time
当家作主	dang	zhu	to be in charge in one's own house (idiom); to be the master of one's own affairs
当局者迷旁观者清	dang	qing	(idiom) an outsider can see things more clearly or objectively than those involved
当当车	dang	che	(coll.) tram, especially Beijing trams during period of operation 1924-1956; also written 鐺鐺車|铛铛车[dang1 dang1 che1]
当政者	dang	zhe	power holder; current political ruler
当断不断	dang	duan	(idiom) to waver when decisiveness is needed
当断则断	dang	duan	to make a decision when it's time to decide
当断即断	dang	duan	not to delay making a decision when a decision is needed
当机立断	dang	duan	to make prompt decisions (idiom)
当权派	dang	pai	persons or faction in authority
当权者	dang	zhe	ruler; those in power; the authorities
当枪使	dang	shi	to use (sb) as a tool
当涂县	dang	xian	Dangtu, a county in Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
当牛作马	dang	ma	to work like a horse and toil like an ox; fig. to slave for sb
当耳旁风	dang	feng	lit. to treat (what sb says) as wind past your ear; fig. to completely disregard
当耳边风	dang	feng	lit. to treat (what sb says) as wind past your ear; fig. to completely disregard
当行出色	dang	se	to excel in one's field
当量剂量	dang	liang	equivalent dose
当阳市	dang	shi	Dangyang, a county-level city in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
当雄县	dang	xian	Damxung, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
当面锣对面鼓	dang	gu	lit. gong facing gong, drum opposite drum (idiom); fig. to come together to thrash out the issue face to face
录像带	lu	dai	videotape; video cassette; CL:盤|盘[pan2]
录像机	lu	ji	video recorder; VCR
录取率	lu	lv	acceptance rate; admission rate
录取线	lu	xian	minimum passing score for admission
录取通知书	lu	shu	admission notice (issued by a university)
录影带	lu	dai	(Tw) videotape; video cassette; CL:盤|盘[pan2]
录影机	lu	ji	camcorder; video recorder; videocassette recorder (Tw)
录音室	lu	shi	recording studio
录音带	lu	dai	audio tape; CL:盤|盘[pan2],盒[he2]
录音机	lu	ji	(tape) recording machine; tape recorder; CL:臺|台[tai2]
录音棚	lu	peng	recording studio
录音笔	lu	bi	voice recorder (handheld digital device)
彝族年	yi	nian	Yi New Year
彝良县	yi	xian	Yiliang, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
形于色	xing	se	to show one's feelings; to show it in one's face
形势严峻	xing	jun	in grave difficulties; the situation is grim
形单影只	xing	zhi	(idiom) lonely soul; solitary
形同虚设	xing	she	to exist in name only; empty shell; useless (idiom)
形同陌路	xing	lu	to be estranged
形声字	xing	zi	phono-semantic compound character
形容词	xing	ci	adjective
形容词短语	xing	yu	adjectival phrase
形容辞	xing	ci	adjective
形式主义	xing	yi	formalism (in philosophy, art, or literary theory); excessive concern with form over substance
形式化	xing	hua	formalization; formalized
形式发票	xing	piao	pro forma invoice
形形色色	xing	se	all kinds of; all sorts of; every (different) kind of
形影不离	xing	li	inseparable (as form and shadow)
形影相吊	xing	diao	with only body and shadow to comfort each other (idiom); extremely sad and lonely
形影相随	xing	sui	(lit.) body and shadow follow each other (idiom); (fig.) inseparable
形态发生素	xing	su	morphogen
形态学	xing	xue	morphology (in biology or linguistics)
形意拳	xing	quan	Xingyiquan (Chinese martial art)
形成层	xing	ceng	vascular cambium (layer of tissue responsible for growth inside wood)
形而上学	xing	xue	metaphysics
形象代言人	xing	ren	(brand or organization) ambassador; face (of a brand or company)
形象大使	xing	shi	person who represents an organization and enhances its image; an ambassador
形象艺术	xing	shu	visual arts
彩色电视	cai	shi	color television
彩色笔	cai	bi	colored pencil (or crayon or marker etc); (Tw) color marker
彩虹吸蜜鹦鹉	cai	wu	(bird species of China) rainbow lorikeet (Trichoglossus moluccanus)
彩虹屁	cai	pi	(neologism c. 2017) (slang) over-the-top praise
彩虹族群	cai	qun	the LGBT+ community
彩虹旗	cai	qi	rainbow flag, aka LGBT pride flag
彩虹蜂虎	cai	hu	(bird species of China) rainbow bee-eater (Merops ornatus)
彩虹行动	cai	dong	the two mass scuttling operations carried out by the German navy: the scuttling of the German fleet at Scapa Flow in 1919 and Operation Regenbogen, the scuttling of U-boats in 1945
彩虹鹦鹉	cai	wu	(bird species of China) coconut lorikeet (Trichoglossus haematodus)
彪个子	biao	zi	tall and strong physique
彪形大汉	biao	han	(idiom) burly chap; husky fellow
彪炳千古	biao	gu	to shine through the ages (idiom)
彬州市	bin	shi	Binzhou, a county-level city in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
彬彬君子	bin	zi	refined gentleman
彬彬有礼	bin	li	refined and courteous; urbane
彬马那	bin	na	Pyinmana, town in central Myanmar
彭丽媛	peng	yuan	Peng Liyuan (1962–), PRC folk music singer, wife of Xi Jinping 習近平|习近平[Xi2 Jin4 ping2]
彭佳屿	peng	yu	Pengjia Island, administered as part of Chilung or Keelung 基隆[Ji1 long2], Taiwan
彭养鸥	peng	ou	Peng Yang'ou, late Qing novelist, author of Victims of Opium 黑籍冤魂[Hei1 ji2 Yuan1 hun2]
彭博新闻社	peng	she	Bloomberg News
彭博社	peng	she	Bloomberg News
彭博通讯社	peng	she	Bloomberg L.P., financial software services, news and data company
彭定康	peng	kang	Chris Patten (1944-), last British Governor of Hong Kong 1992-1997
彭山区	peng	qu	Pengshan, a district of Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
彭州市	peng	shi	Pengzhou, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
彭德怀	peng	huai	Peng Dehuai (1898-1974), top communist general, subsequently politician and politburo member, disgraced after attacking Mao's failed policies in 1959, and died after extensive persecution during the Cultural Revolution
彭水县	peng	xian	Pengshui Miao and Tujia autonomous county in Qianjiang suburbs of Chongqing municipality
彭泽县	peng	xian	Pengze, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
彭湖岛	peng	dao	Penghu island county of Taiwan, off the coast of Kaohsiung
彭阳县	peng	xian	Pengyang, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
彭麻麻	peng	ma	Mommy Peng, nickname for Peng Liyuan 彭麗媛|彭丽媛[Peng2 Li4 yuan2]
彰化县	zhang	xian	Zhanghua or Changhua County in west Taiwan
彰化市	zhang	shi	Zhanghua or Changhua city in west Taiwan, capital of Changhua county
彰善瘅恶	zhang	e	to distinguish good and evil (idiom); to uphold virtue and condemn evil; to praise good and expose vice
彰明较著	zhang	zhu	obvious; clear for all to see
彰武县	zhang	xian	Zhangwu, a county in Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
影像会议	ying	yi	video conference
影像处理	ying	li	image processing
影像档	ying	dang	image file
影剧院	ying	yuan	cinema; movie theater
影印本	ying	ben	a photocopy
影印机	ying	ji	(Tw) photocopier
影响力	ying	li	influence; impact
影响因子	ying	zi	impact factor (of an academic journal)
影响层面	ying	mian	impact; effect
影响面	ying	mian	reach of influence; affected area
影子内阁	ying	ge	shadow cabinet
影射小说	ying	shuo	roman à clef
影碟机	ying	ji	DVD player
影评人	ying	ren	film critic
役使动物	yi	wu	draft animals; beasts of burden
彻夜不眠	che	mian	to be sleepless all night
彻头彻尾	che	wei	lit. from head to tail (idiom); thoroughgoing; through and through; out and out
彼一时此一时	bi	shi	that was one thing, and this is another; times have changed
彼尔姆	bi	mu	Perm, Russian city in the Urals
彼岸花	bi	hua	red spider lily (Lycoris radiata); cluster amaryllis
彼得前书	bi	shu	First Epistle of Peter (in New Testament)
彼得后书	bi	shu	Second Epistle of Peter (in New Testament)
彼得堡	bi	bao	Petersburg (place name); Saint Petersburg, Russia
彼得格勒	bi	le	Petrograd (former name of Saint Petersburg 聖彼得堡|圣彼得堡[Sheng4 bi3 de2 bao3])
彼得潘	bi	pan	Peter Pan, the novel character
彼得罗维奇	bi	qi	Petrovich (name)
彼拉多	bi	duo	Pilate (Pontius Pilate in the Biblical passion story)
彼拉提斯	bi	si	Pilates (physical fitness system) (Tw)
彼此彼此	bi	ci	(idiom) you and me both; that makes two of us
往事如风	wang	feng	the past is vanished like the wind; gone beyond recall
往事已矣	wang	yi	the past is dead (idiom)
往复运动	wang	dong	backwards and forwards action (e.g. of piston or pump); reciprocating motion
往复锯	wang	ju	reciprocating saw
往心里去	wang	qu	to take sth to heart; to take sth seriously
往来帐户	wang	hu	current account (in bank)
往死里	wang	li	(coll.) (to beat etc) to death
往泥里踩	wang	cai	to belittle; to attack sb
往脸上抹黑	wang	hei	to bring shame to; to smear; to disgrace
征信社	zheng	she	(Tw) private investigator; credit bureau
征名责实	zheng	shi	to seek out the real nature based on the name (idiom); to judge sth at face value
征敛无度	zheng	du	to extort taxes excessively
征服者	zheng	zhe	conqueror
径情直遂	jing	sui	to achieve one's ambitions (idiom)
待乙妥	dai	tuo	DEET (insect repellent) (loanword)
待人接物	dai	wu	(idiom) to interact with people
待价而沽	dai	gu	to sell only for a good price (idiom); to wait for a good offer
待会儿	dai	r	in a moment; later; also pr. [dai1 hui3 r5] or [dai1 hui5 r5]
待办事项列表	dai	biao	to-do list
待宵草	dai	cao	evening primrose
待用餐	dai	can	suspended meal (Tw)
徇情枉法	xun	fa	see 徇私枉法[xun4 si1 wang3 fa3]
徇私枉法	xun	fa	to bend the law in order to favor one's relatives or associates (idiom)
徇私舞弊	xun	bi	(idiom) to abuse one's position for personal gain
律师事务所	lv	suo	law firm
律政司	lv	si	Department of Justice (Hong Kong)
徐世昌	xu	chang	Xu Shichang (1855-1939), politician associated with the Northern Warlords, president of China in 1921
徐光启	xu	qi	Xu Guangqi (1562-1633), agricultural scientist, astronomer, and mathematician in the Ming dynasty
徐匡迪	xu	di	Xu Kuangdi (1937-), PRC politician and former mayor of Shanghai
徐娘半老	xu	lao	middle-aged but still attractive woman; lady of a certain age
徐家汇	xu	hui	Xujiahui, an area in 徐匯區|徐汇区[Xu2 hui4 qu1], Xuhui district, central Shanghai
徐州市	xu	shi	Xuzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
徐志摩	xu	mo	Xu Zhimo (1897-1931), writer and poet
徐悲鸿	xu	hong	Xu Beihong (1895-1953), famous European-trained painter and influential art teacher
徐水区	xu	qu	Xushui, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
徐汇区	xu	qu	Xuhui district, central Shanghai
徐熙媛	xu	yuan	Barbie Hsu (1976–2025), Taiwanese entertainer, nicknamed 大S[Da4 S]
徐祯卿	xu	qing	Xu Zhenqing (1479-1511), Ming writer, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
徐继畬	xu	yu	Xu Jiyu (1795–1873), Chinese geographer
徐闻县	xu	xian	Xuwen, a county in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
徐霞客	xu	ke	Xu Xiake (1587-1641), Ming dynasty travel writer and geographer, author of Xu Xiake's Travel Diaries 徐霞客遊記|徐霞客游记[Xu2 Xia2 ke4 You2 ji4]
徐霞客游记	xu	ji	Xu Xiake's Travel Diaries, a book of travel records by 徐霞客[Xu2 Xia2 ke4] on geology, geography, plants etc
徒劳无功	tu	gong	to work to no avail (idiom)
徒劳无益	tu	yi	futile endeavor (idiom)
徒呼负负	tu	fu	to feel powerless and full of shame (idiom)
徒子徒孙	tu	sun	(idiom) disciples; followers
徒手画	tu	hua	freehand drawing
徒拥虚名	tu	ming	see 徒有虛名|徒有虚名[tu2 you3 xu1 ming2]
徒有其名	tu	ming	with an undeserved reputation (idiom); unwarranted fame; nowhere near as good as he's made out to be
徒有虚名	tu	ming	with an undeserved reputation (idiom); unwarranted fame; nowhere near as good as he's made out to be
徒步区	tu	qu	(Tw) car-free zone; pedestrian zone
徒步旅行	tu	xing	hiking
徒步路径	tu	jing	hiking trail
得不偿失	de	shi	the gains do not make up for the losses (idiom)
得不到	de	dao	cannot get; cannot obtain
得便宜卖乖	de	guai	to have benefited from sth but pretend otherwise; to claim to be hard done by, even though one has benefited
得偿所愿	de	yuan	to have one's wish fulfilled
得克萨斯	de	si	Texas, US state (an official transliteration, but less commonly used than 德克薩斯|德克萨斯[De2 ke4 sa4 si1])
得可以	de	yi	(coll.) (stative verb suffix) very; awfully
得天独厚	de	hou	blessed by heaven (idiom); enjoying exceptional advantages; favored by nature
得寸进尺	de	chi	lit. win an inch, want a foot (idiom); fig. not satisfied with small gains; give him an inch, and he'll want a mile
得心应手	de	shou	lit. what the heart wishes, the hand accomplishes (idiom) skilled at the job; entirely in one's element; going smoothly and easily
得意忘形	de	xing	so pleased as to lose one's sense of measure; beside oneself with joy
得意扬扬	de	yang	variant of 得意洋洋[de2 yi4 yang2 yang2]
得意洋洋	de	yang	joyfully satisfied; to be immensely proud of oneself; proudly
得意门生	de	sheng	favorite pupil
得所应得	de	de	to get what one deserves
得来不易	de	yi	hard to come by; not easily obtained; hard-won
得来速	de	su	drive-thru (loanword)
得梅因	de	yin	Des Moines, capital of Iowa
得益于	de	yu	to benefit from; thanks to
得票率	de	lv	percentage of votes obtained
得而复失	de	shi	to lose what one has just obtained (idiom)
得荣县	de	xian	Dêrong, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
得过且过	de	guo	satisfied just to get through (idiom); to muddle through; without high ambitions, but getting by
得道多助	de	zhu	a just cause enjoys abundant support (idiom); those upholding justice will find help all around
得道多助失道寡助	de	zhu	A just cause attracts much support, an unjust one finds little (idiom, from Mencius)
得陇望蜀	de	shu	lit. covet Sichuan once Gansu has been seized; fig. endless greed; insatiable desire
得饶人处且饶人	de	ren	where it is possible to let people off, one should spare them (idiom); anyone can make mistakes, forgive them when possible
得鱼忘筌	de	quan	lit. catch fish then forget the trap (idiom, from Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); fig. to take help for granted
御便当	yu	dang	(Tw) bento; lunch box
御夫座	yu	zuo	Auriga (constellation)
御宅族	yu	zu	otaku, a Japanese term for people with obsessive interests such as anime, manga, and video games; see also 宅男[zhai2 nan2]; see also 宅女[zhai2 nu:3]
御用大律师	yu	shi	Queen's Counsel
御膳房	yu	fang	imperial kitchen
御饭团	yu	tuan	onigiri (Japanese-style riceball)
御驾亲征	yu	zheng	the emperor leads his troops into battle (idiom); to take part personally in an expedition
循化县	xun	xian	see 循化撒拉族自治縣|循化撒拉族自治县[Xun2 hua4 Sa1 la1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
循化撒拉族自治县	xun	xian	Xunhua Salar Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
循序渐进	xun	jin	in sequence, step by step (idiom); to make steady progress incrementally
循循善诱	xun	you	to guide patiently and systematically (idiom)
循环使用	xun	yong	recycle; to use in cyclic order
循环小数	xun	shu	recurring decimal
循环性	xun	xing	cyclical; cyclic; circulatory
循环系统	xun	tong	circulatory system
循环经济	xun	ji	circular economy
循环节	xun	jie	recurring section of a rational decimal
循环论证	xun	zheng	circular argument; logical error consisting of begging the question; Latin: petitio principii
循环赛	xun	sai	round-robin tournament
循规蹈矩	xun	ju	to follow the compass and go with the set square (idiom); to follow the rules inflexibly; to act according to convention
循道宗	xun	zong	Methodism
微不足道	wei	dao	(idiom) negligible; insignificant
微丝血管	wei	guan	capillary blood vessels
微中子	wei	zi	(Tw) (particle physics) neutrino
微乎其微	wei	wei	a tiny bit; very little; next to nothing (idiom)
微凹黄檀	wei	tan	cocobolo (Dalbergia retusa)
微分几何	wei	he	differential geometry
微分几何学	wei	xue	differential geometry
微分学	wei	xue	differential calculus
微分方程	wei	cheng	(math.) differential equation
微创手术	wei	shu	minimally invasive surgery
微劈恩	wei	en	(coll.) (loanword) VPN
微动开关	wei	guan	microswitch
微动脉	wei	mai	capillary artery
微博客	wei	ke	microblogging; microblog
微型小说	wei	shuo	flash fiction
微处理器	wei	qi	microprocessor
微处理机	wei	ji	microprocessor
微孔膜	wei	mo	microporous membrane
微安培	wei	pei	microampere
微山县	wei	xian	Weishan, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
微扰展开	wei	kai	perturbative expansion (physics)
微扰论	wei	lun	perturbation theory
微控制器	wei	qi	microcontroller unit (MCU)
微整形	wei	xing	non-surgical cosmetic procedure (injection of Botox, hyaluronic acid etc)
微晶片	wei	pian	microchip
微服私访	wei	fang	to mingle with the people incognito
微机化	wei	hua	miniaturization; micro-miniaturization
微波天线	wei	xian	microwave antenna
微波炉	wei	lu	microwave oven; CL:臺|台[tai2]
微生物	wei	wu	microorganism
微生物学	wei	xue	microbiology
微生物学家	wei	jia	microbiologist
微电子	wei	zi	microelectronics
微电子学	wei	xue	microelectronics
微电脑	wei	nao	microcomputer
微睡眠	wei	mian	microsleep
微积分	wei	fen	calculus (branch of mathematics)
微积分学	wei	xue	calculus (branch of mathematics)
微管蛋白	wei	bai	tubulin
微粒体	wei	ti	microsome
微细加工	wei	gong	microminiature technology
微缩胶卷	wei	juan	microfilm
微聚焦	wei	jiao	microfocus x-ray computed tomography (microCT)
微胶囊技术	wei	shu	microencapsulation
微血管	wei	guan	capillary
微表情	wei	qing	microexpression
微观世界	wei	jie	the microscopic world; the realm of structures too small to be seen with the naked eye
微观经济	wei	ji	microeconomic
微观经济学	wei	xue	microeconomics
微言大义	wei	yi	subtle words with profound meaning (idiom)
微软公司	wei	si	Microsoft Corporation
微速摄影	wei	ying	time-lapse photography
微量元素	wei	su	trace element (chemistry)
微量白蛋白	wei	bai	microalbumin
微静脉	wei	mai	capillary vein
德不配位	de	wei	one's moral standards are not in keeping with one's social status
德不配位必有灾殃	de	yang	calamity will befall those whose moral standards are not in keeping with their social status
德乌帕	de	pa	Sher Bahadur Deuba (1946-), former prime minister of Nepal
德令哈	de	ha	see 德令哈市[De2 ling4 ha1 Shi4]
德令哈市	de	shi	Delingha, a county-level city in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
德伦特	de	te	Drenthe (name); Drenthe (province in Netherlands)
德保县	de	xian	Debao, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
德先生	de	sheng	"Mr Democracy", phrase used during the May 4th Movement 五四運動|五四运动[Wu3 si4 Yun4 dong4]; abbr. for 德謨克拉西|德谟克拉西[de2 mo2 ke4 la1 xi1]; see also 賽先生|赛先生[Sai4 xian1 sheng5]
德克萨斯	de	si	Texas, US state
德兴市	de	shi	Dexing, a county-level city in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
德勒兹	de	zi	Gilles Deleuze (1925-1995), French philosopher
德勒巴克	de	ke	Drøbak (city in Akershus, Norway)
德勒斯登	de	deng	(Tw) Dresden, capital of Saxony, Germany
德化县	de	xian	Dehua, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
德古拉	de	la	Dracula, novel by Bram Stoker; Vlad III, Prince of Wallachia (1431-1476), nicknamed Vlad the Impaler or Dracula
德古西加巴	de	ba	Tegucigalpa, capital of Honduras (Tw)
德国之声	de	sheng	Deutsche Welle, German publicly-operated international broadcaster
德国人	de	ren	German person or people
德国学术交流总署	de	shu	German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD) (Tw)
德国战车	de	che	Rammstein (German metal band)
德国标准化学会	de	hui	Deutsches Institut für Normung e.V. (DIN); German Institute for Standardization
德国汉莎航空公司	de	si	Deutsche Lufthansa AG
德国结	de	jie	pretzel
德国统一社会党	de	dang	Sozialistische Einheitspartei Deutschlands (Socialist Unity Party of Germany 1949-1990), the ruling communist party of the former German Democratic Republic (East Germany)
德国酸菜	de	cai	sauerkraut
德国马克	de	ke	German mark
德国麻疹	de	zhen	German measles; rubella
德城区	de	qu	Decheng, a district of Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
德安县	de	xian	De'an, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
德宏州	de	zhou	see 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
德尔塔	de	ta	delta (Greek letter Δ, δ)
德州仪器	de	qi	Texas Instruments
德州市	de	shi	Dezhou, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
德州扑克	de	ke	Texas hold 'em (poker variant)
德庆县	de	xian	Deqing, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
德彪西	de	xi	Claude Debussy (1862–1918), French composer
德律风	de	feng	(old) (loanword) telephone
德惠市	de	shi	Dehui, a county-level city in Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
德意志	de	zhi	Deutschland; Germany
德意志学术交流中心	de	xin	German Academic Exchange Service (DAAD)
德意志民主共和国	de	guo	German Democratic Republic (East Germany), 1945-1990
德意志联邦共和国	de	guo	Federal Republic of Germany; former West Germany 1945-1990, now simply Germany
德意志银行	de	hang	Deutsche Bank
德才兼备	de	bei	(idiom) possessing both integrity and talent
德拉克罗瓦	de	wa	Delacroix (painter)
德拉门	de	men	Drammen (city in Buskerud, Norway)
德昂族	de	zu	De'ang ethnic group
德昌县	de	xian	Dechang, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
德智体美	de	mei	the aims of education: morality, intelligence, physical fitness and aesthetic sense
德格县	de	xian	Dêgê, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
德梅因	de	yin	(HK) Des Moines, capital of Iowa
德江县	de	xian	Dejiang, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
德沃夏克	de	ke	Antonin Dvořák (1841-1904), Bohemian composer, author of nine symphonies including the New World symphony
德法年鉴	de	jian	Deutsch-Französische Jahrbücher (published once in 1844 by Karl Marx and bourgeois radical Arnold Ruge)
德清县	de	xian	Deqing, a county in Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
德累斯顿	de	dun	Dresden, capital of Saxony 薩克森州|萨克森州[Sa4 ke4 sen1 Zhou1], Germany
德维尔潘	de	pan	(Dominique) de Villepin (French name)
德育处	de	chu	Moral Education Office (administrative department in Chinese schools responsible for overseeing student conduct, moral and ideological education, mental health, safety, aesthetic and patriotic education, extracurricular activities and coordination with families and student organizations)
德胜门	de	men	Deshengmen (Beijing)
德艺双馨	de	xin	(idiom) possessing both integrity and artistic skills
德莱塞	de	se	Theodore Dreiser (1871–1945), American writer
德薄能鲜	de	xian	little virtue and meager abilities (idiom); I'm a humble person and not much use at anything (Song writer Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1])
德谟克拉西	de	xi	democracy (loanword) (old)
德里达	de	da	Jacques Derrida (1930-2004), philosopher
德钦县	de	xian	Deqin, a county in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
德阳市	de	shi	Deyang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
德雷尔	de	er	Dreyer (name); June Teufel Dreyer, China expert at Univ. of Miami and Foreign Policy Research Institute
德雷斯顿	de	dun	Dresden, Germany
德雷福斯	de	si	Dreyfus (name); Alfred Dreyfus (1859-1935), French artillery officer of Alsatian and Jewish background, infamously imprisoned 1894 in miscarriage of justice
德雷福斯案件	de	jian	Dreyfus affair 1894-1906, notorious political scandal in France case involving antisemitism and miscarriage of justice
德高望重	de	zhong	(idiom) a person of virtue and prestige; a person of good moral standing and reputation
德黑兰	de	lan	Tehran, capital of Iran
徽州区	hui	qu	Huizhou, a district of Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
心上人	xin	ren	sweetheart; one's beloved
心不在焉	xin	yan	absent-minded; preoccupied; inattentive
心中无数	xin	shu	to have no idea; to be unsure
心中有数	xin	shu	to know what's going on
心中有鬼	xin	gui	to harbor ulterior motives (idiom)
心乱如麻	xin	ma	one's thoughts in a whirl (idiom); confused; disconcerted; upset
心事重重	xin	chong	to have a lot on one's mind; to be laden with anxiety
心余力绌	xin	chu	see 心有餘而力不足|心有余而力不足[xin1 you3 yu2 er2 li4 bu4 zu2]
心力交瘁	xin	cui	to be both mentally and physically exhausted (idiom)
心力衰竭	xin	jie	heart failure
心动图	xin	tu	cardiogram (medicine)
心动女	xin	nv	(coll.) the girl of your dreams
心口不一	xin	yi	heart and mouth at variance (idiom); keeping one's real intentions to oneself; saying one thing but meaning sth different
心口如一	xin	yi	lit. heart and mouth as one (idiom); to say what you think; honest and straightforward
心叶椴	xin	duan	small-leaf linden (Tilia cordata)
心地善良	xin	liang	kindhearted; good-natured
心头好	xin	hao	favorite; something preferred over others
心头肉	xin	rou	the person one loves the most; one's most treasured possession
心如刀割	xin	ge	to feel as if having one's heart cut out (idiom); to be torn with grief
心如刀绞	xin	jiao	to feel a pain like a knife being twisted in one's heart (idiom)
心如止水	xin	shui	to be at peace with oneself
心存不满	xin	man	to be discontented; to be dissatisfied
心存怀疑	xin	yi	to be suspicious
心安理得	xin	de	to have a clear conscience; to have no qualms about sth
心安神闲	xin	xian	with one's heart at ease and one's spirit at rest (idiom)
心室颤动	xin	dong	ventricular fibrillation (V-fib), abbr. to 室顫|室颤[shi4 chan4]
心宽体胖	xin	pan	big-hearted and serene (idiom); contented and easygoing
心宿二	xin	er	Antares, the brightest star in Scorpio 天蠍座|天蝎座[Tian1 xie1 zuo4]
心平气和	xin	he	tranquil and even-tempered (idiom); calmly and without stress
心广体胖	xin	pan	big-hearted and serene (idiom); contended and easygoing
心影儿	xin	er	(Taiwan usage) child in need of help (orphaned, abandoned, abused etc)
心律不整	xin	zheng	arrhythmia
心律不齐	xin	qi	arrhythmia
心律失常	xin	chang	arrhythmia
心得安	xin	an	propranolol (beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure)
心心念念	xin	nian	(idiom) to constantly think about; to be preoccupied with; to set one's heart on
心心相印	xin	yin	two hearts beat as one (idiom); a kindred spirit
心怀叵测	xin	ce	see 居心叵測|居心叵测[ju1 xin1 po3 ce4]
心怀忐忑	xin	te	(idiom) anxious; uneasy; filled with trepidation
心急吃不了热豆腐	xin	fu	hasty men don't get to eat hot tofu (idiom); one just has to be patient; haste will ruin everything
心急如火	xin	huo	see 心急如焚[xin1 ji2 ru2 fen2]
心急如焚	xin	fen	(idiom) burning with anxiety; extremely anxious or impatient
心急火燎	xin	liao	see 心急如焚[xin1 ji2 ru2 fen2]
心怦怦跳	xin	tiao	The heart thumps wildly. (idiom)
心悦诚服	xin	fu	to submit cheerfully; to accept willingly (idiom)
心惊肉跳	xin	tiao	lit. heart alarmed, body leaping (idiom); fear and trepidation in the face of disaster
心惊胆战	xin	zhan	lit. heart alarmed, trembling in fear (idiom); prostrate with fear; scared witless
心惊胆颤	xin	chan	see 心驚膽戰|心惊胆战[xin1 jing1 dan3 zhan4]
心想事成	xin	cheng	(idiom) to have one's wishes come true; wish you the best!
心愿单	xin	dan	wish list
心慈手软	xin	ruan	(idiom) softhearted; merciful
心慌意乱	xin	luan	confused; rattled; flustered
心房颤动	xin	dong	atrial fibrillation
心拙口夯	xin	ben	variant of 心拙口笨[xin1 zhuo1 kou3 ben4]
心拙口笨	xin	ben	dull-witted and tongue-tied
心无二用	xin	yong	one cannot concentrate on two things at the same time
心无旁骛	xin	wu	completely focused; free of distractions
心旷神怡	xin	yi	lit. heart untroubled, spirit pleased (idiom); carefree and relaxed
心智图	xin	tu	mind map
心有余力不足	xin	zu	The will is there, but not the strength (idiom, from Confucian Analects).; I really want to do it, but don't have the resources.; The spirit is willing but the flesh is weak.
心有余悸	xin	ji	to have lingering fears; trepidation remaining after a trauma (idiom)
心有余而力不足	xin	zu	the will is there, but not the strength (idiom); the spirit is willing but the flesh is weak
心有灵犀一点通	xin	tong	hearts linked as one, just as the proverbial rhinoceros communicates emotion telepathically through his single horn (idiom); fig. two hearts beat as one
心服口服	xin	fu	(idiom) to accept wholeheartedly; to embrace; to be won over
心杂音	xin	yin	see 心臟雜音|心脏杂音[xin1 zang4 za2 yin1]
心毒手辣	xin	la	vicious and ruthless
心满意足	xin	zu	perfectly contented (idiom); perfectly satisfied
心潮澎湃	xin	pai	to be overwhelmed by emotions
心灰意冷	xin	leng	discouraged; downhearted
心灰意懒	xin	lan	discouraged; downhearted
心灵上	xin	shang	spiritual
心灵感应	xin	ying	telepathy
心灵手巧	xin	qiao	capable; clever; dexterous
心灵鸡汤	xin	tang	(often used disparagingly) feel-good motivational story or quote (from the Chinese translation of the title of the 1993 self-help bestseller "Chicken Soup for the Soul")
心烦意乱	xin	luan	lit. heart distracted, thoughts in turmoil (idiom); distraught with anxiety
心烦气躁	xin	zao	agitated; annoyed (idiom)
心照不宣	xin	xuan	to have a tacit understanding
心狠手辣	xin	la	(idiom) vicious; merciless
心猿意马	xin	ma	lit. heart like a frisky monkey, mind like a cantering horse (idiom); fig. capricious (derog.); to have ants in one's pants; hyperactive
心理作用	xin	yong	a perception that doesn't reflect reality; a notion based on an erroneous belief
心理分析	xin	xi	psychoanalysis
心理学	xin	xue	psychology
心理学家	xin	jia	psychologist
心理建设	xin	she	psychological preparation; mental conditioning
心理战	xin	zhan	psychological warfare; psychological operations; psyop
心理统计学	xin	xue	psychometrics; quantitative psychology
心理词典	xin	dian	mental lexicon
心理防线	xin	xian	psychological defenses; mental resistance
心甘情愿	xin	yuan	delighted to (do sth, idiom); perfectly happy to do; most willing to do
心电图	xin	tu	electrocardiogram (ECG)
心电感应	xin	ying	telepathy
心目中	xin	zhong	in one's eyes; in one's estimation
心直口快	xin	kuai	frank and outspoken (idiom); straight speaking; to say what one thinks
心直嘴快	xin	kuai	frank and outspoken; straight speaking; to say what one thinks
心眼儿	xin	r	one's thoughts; mind; intention
心眼多	xin	duo	to have unfounded doubts; overconcerned
心眼大	xin	da	magnanimous; considerate; thoughtful
心眼好	xin	hao	well-intentioned; good-natured; kindhearted
心眼小	xin	xiao	see 小心眼[xiao3 xin1 yan3]
心知肚明	xin	ming	to be well aware
心砰砰跳	xin	tiao	variant of 心怦怦跳[xin1 peng1 peng1 tiao4]
心神不宁	xin	ning	to feel ill at ease
心神不安	xin	an	to feel ill at ease
心神不属	xin	zhu	see 心不在焉[xin1 bu4 zai4 yan1]
心神专注	xin	zhu	to concentrate one's attention; to be fully focused
心神恍惚	xin	hu	perturbed (idiom)
心窝儿	xin	r	erhua form of 心窩|心窝[xin1 wo1]
心细如发	xin	fa	(idiom) meticulous; very careful or attentive
心细如尘	xin	chen	meticulous; very careful or attentive
心绞痛	xin	tong	angina
心绪不佳	xin	jia	out of sorts; gloomy
心绪不宁	xin	ning	unquiet state of mind
心肌梗塞	xin	se	(Tw) myocardial infarction; heart attack
心肌梗死	xin	si	myocardial infarction; heart attack
心肌炎	xin	yan	myocarditis
心肝宝贝	xin	bei	precious darling (often refers to one's child); sweetheart
心肺复苏术	xin	shu	cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR)
心胆俱裂	xin	lie	to be scared out of one's wits (idiom)
心胸开阔	xin	kuo	broad-minded; open-minded
心胸狭窄	xin	zhai	(idiom) narrow-minded; petty; ungenerous
心胸狭隘	xin	ai	narrow; petty-minded
心脏搭桥手术	xin	shu	coronary bypass operation
心脏收缩压	xin	ya	systolic blood pressure
心脏杂音	xin	yin	heart murmur
心脏疾患	xin	huan	heart disease
心脏病	xin	bing	heart disease
心脏病发作	xin	zuo	heart attack; to have a heart attack
心脏舒张压	xin	ya	diastolic blood pressure
心脏骤停	xin	ting	cardiac arrest
心腹之患	xin	huan	lit. calamity within one's bosom (idiom); major trouble hidden within
心花怒放	xin	fang	to burst with joy (idiom); to be over the moon; to be elated
心荡神驰	xin	chi	to be infatuated with
心血来潮	xin	chao	to be prompted by a sudden impulse; carried away by a whim; to have a brainstorm
心血管	xin	guan	(anatomy) heart and blood vessels; cardiovascular
心血管疾病	xin	bing	cardiovascular disease
心跳过缓	xin	huan	bradycardia
心醉神迷	xin	mi	ecstatic; enraptured
心里有数	xin	shu	to know the score (idiom); to be well aware of the situation
心里有谱	xin	pu	to have a plan in mind
心里有鬼	xin	gui	to have secret motives; to have a guilty conscience
心里痒痒	xin	yang	to feel a strong urge (to do sth)
心里美萝卜	xin	bo	Chinese roseheart radish (shinrimei radish), green on the outside, purple-red on the inside, a favorite Beijing vegetable
心里话	xin	hua	(to express one's) true feelings; what is on one's mind; secret mind
心静自然凉	xin	liang	a calm heart keeps you cool (idiom)
心领神会	xin	hui	to understand tacitly (idiom); to know intuitively; to understand thoroughly
心领神悟	xin	wu	see 心領神會|心领神会[xin1 ling3 shen2 hui4]
心驰神往	xin	wang	one's thoughts fly to a longed-for place or person; to long for; infatuated
心高气傲	xin	ao	proud and arrogant
必不可少	bi	shao	absolutely necessary; indispensable; essential
必不可缺	bi	que	see 必不可少[bi4 bu4 ke3 shao3]
必修课	bi	ke	required course; compulsory course
必和必拓	bi	tuo	BHP Billiton (Anglo-Australian mining corporation)
必恭必敬	bi	jing	variant of 畢恭畢敬|毕恭毕敬[bi4 gong1 bi4 jing4]
必有重谢	bi	xie	(we) will be very grateful (if ...)
必杀技	bi	ji	(gaming or wrestling) finishing move; finisher
必死无疑	bi	yi	will die for sure; to be a goner
必然王国	bi	guo	realm of necessity (philosophy)
必然结果	bi	guo	inevitable outcome; inescapable consequence
必由之路	bi	lu	see 必經之路|必经之路[bi4 jing1 zhi1 lu4]
必经之路	bi	lu	(idiom) the road one must follow; the only way
必胜客	bi	ke	Pizza Hut
必要性	bi	xing	necessity
必要条件	bi	jian	requirement; necessary condition (math)
必需品	bi	pin	necessity; essential (thing)
忆苦思甜	yi	tian	to view one's past as miserable and one's present as happy (idiom)
忆苦饭	yi	fan	unsavory meal taken in remembrance of past hardships; fig. poor-tasting meal
忍不住	ren	zhu	cannot help; unable to bear
忍俊不禁	ren	jin	cannot help laughing; unable to restrain a smile
忍得住	ren	zhu	to refrain; to be able to endure it
忍无可忍	ren	ren	more than one can bear (idiom); at the end of one's patience; the last straw
忍气吞声	ren	sheng	to submit to humiliation (idiom); to suffer in silence; to swallow one's anger; to grin and bear it
忍痛割爱	ren	ai	to resign oneself to part with what one treasures
忍者神龟	ren	gui	Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles, US comic book series, first appeared in 1984, also films, video games etc
忍者龟	ren	gui	Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (Tw); see 忍者神龜|忍者神龟[Ren3 zhe3 Shen2 gui1]
忍耐力	ren	li	patience; fortitude
忍辱偷生	ren	sheng	to bear humiliation to save one's skin (idiom)
忍辱含垢	ren	gou	see 含垢忍辱[han2 gou4 ren3 ru3]
忍辱求全	ren	quan	to endure humiliation to preserve unity
忍辱负重	ren	zhong	to endure humiliation as part of an important mission (idiom); to suffer in silence
忍饥挨饿	ren	e	starving; famished
忐忑不安	tan	an	(idiom) anxious; in turmoil
志不在此	zhi	ci	to have one's ambitions elsewhere (idiom)
志丹县	zhi	xian	Zhidan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
志同道合	zhi	he	(idiom) to be devoted to a common cause; to be like-minded
志在四方	zhi	fang	to aspire to travel far and make one's mark (idiom)
志士仁人	zhi	ren	gentleman aspiring to benevolence (idiom); people with lofty ideals
志得意满	zhi	man	fully content with one's achievements (idiom); complacent
志怪小说	zhi	shuo	tales of the supernatural (genre of fiction)
志愿兵	zhi	bing	volunteer soldier; CL:名[ming2]
志愿军	zhi	jun	volunteer army
志愿者	zhi	zhe	volunteer
志留系	zhi	xi	Silurian system (geology); see 志留紀|志留纪
志留纪	zhi	ji	Silurian (geological period 440-417m years ago)
志贺氏菌病	zhi	bing	shigellosis; bacillary dysentery
志高气扬	zhi	yang	high-spirited and smug
忘不了	wang	liao	cannot forget
忘乎所以	wang	yi	(idiom) to get carried away; to lose one's sense of proportion
忘八旦	wang	dan	turtle's egg (highly offensive when directed at sb)
忘八蛋	wang	dan	turtle's egg (highly offensive when directed at sb)
忘其所以	wang	yi	see 忘乎所以[wang4 hu1 suo3 yi3]
忘年之交	wang	jiao	(idiom) friends with a significant age gap
忘年交	wang	jiao	friends with a significant age gap
忘年恋	wang	lian	romantic relationship with a significant age gap
忘忧草	wang	cao	daylily (Hemerocallis fulva)
忘恩负义	wang	yi	to forget favors and violate justice (idiom); ingratitude to a friend; to kick a benefactor in the teeth
忘餐废寝	wang	qin	see 廢寢忘食|废寝忘食[fei4 qin3 wang4 shi2]
忙不过来	mang	lai	to have more work than one can deal with; to have one's hands full
忙不迭	mang	die	hurriedly; in haste
忙中有失	mang	shi	rushed work leads to errors (idiom)
忙中有错	mang	cuo	rushed work leads to errors (idiom)
忙忙叨叨	mang	dao	in a busy and hasty manner
忙进忙出	mang	chu	very busy
忙里偷闲	mang	xian	(idiom) to snatch a moment of leisure in the midst of a busy schedule
忠君爱国	zhong	guo	(idiom) to be faithful to the ruler and love one's country
忠心耿耿	zhong	geng	loyal and devoted (idiom); faithful and true
忠清北道	zhong	dao	North Chungcheong Province, South Korea, capital Cheongju 清州市
忠清南道	zhong	dao	South Chungcheong Province, South Korea, capital Daejeon 大田[Da4 tian2]
忠清道	zhong	dao	Chungcheong Province of Joseon Korea, now divided into North Chungcheong province 忠清北道[Zhong1 qing1 bei3 dao4] and South Chungcheong province 忠清南道[Zhong1 qing1 nan2 dao4] of South Korea
忠言逆耳	zhong	er	loyal advice jars on the ears (idiom)
忠贞不渝	zhong	yu	unswerving in one's loyalty (idiom); faithful and constant
忧心忡忡	you	chong	deeply worried and sick at heart (idiom)
忧郁症	you	zheng	(psychology) depression
快中子	kuai	zi	fast neutrons
快乐大本营	kuai	ying	Happy Camp (PRC TV series)
快刀斩乱麻	kuai	ma	lit. quick sword cuts through tangled hemp (idiom); decisive action in a complex situation; cutting the Gordian knot
快刀断乱麻	kuai	ma	lit. quick sword cuts through tangled hemp (idiom); decisive action in a complex situation; cutting the Gordian knot
快可立	kuai	li	Quickly, tapioca milk tea franchise
快感中心	kuai	xin	pleasure center
快捷方式	kuai	shi	(computer) shortcut
快捷键	kuai	jian	(computer) shortcut key; hotkey
快时尚	kuai	shang	fast fashion
快板儿	kuai	r	clapper talk; patter song (in opera) with clapperboard accompaniment
快步流星	kuai	xing	to walk quickly; striding quickly
快步跑	kuai	pao	to trot
快消品	kuai	pin	fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) (abbr. for 快速消費品|快速消费品[kuai4 su4 xiao1 fei4 pin3])
快炒店	kuai	dian	(Tw) low-budget eatery
快点儿	kuai	r	erhua variant of 快點|快点[kuai4 dian3]
快煮壶	kuai	hu	electric kettle (Tw)
快熟面	kuai	mian	instant noodles
快行道	kuai	dao	fast lane; express lane
快车道	kuai	dao	fast lane
快递员	kuai	yuan	package delivery person; courier
快速以太网络	kuai	luo	Fast Ethernet
快速动眼期	kuai	qi	REM sleep
快速筛检	kuai	jian	rapid diagnostic test (RDT), abbr. to 快篩|快筛[kuai4 shai1]
快速记忆法	kuai	fa	mnemotechnic method
快速诊断测试	kuai	shi	rapid diagnostic test (RDT)
快闪党	kuai	dang	flash mobbers
快闪存储器	kuai	qi	(computing) flash memory
快闪族	kuai	zu	flash mobbers
快闪记忆体	kuai	ti	(computing) flash memory
快闪记忆体盘	kuai	pan	(computing) flash drive; thumb drive
快餐交友	kuai	you	speed dating
快餐店	kuai	dian	fast food shop
快餐部	kuai	bu	snack bar; buffet
快马加鞭	kuai	bian	to spur the horse to full speed (idiom); to go as fast as possible
念兹在兹	nian	zi	see 念念不忘[nian4 nian4 bu4 wang4]
念学位	nian	wei	to study for a degree; to take a degree course
念念不忘	nian	wang	to keep in mind constantly (idiom)
念念有词	nian	ci	variant of 念念有詞|念念有词[nian4 nian4 you3 ci2]
念想儿	nian	r	(coll.) keepsake; memento; (coll.) impression (of sb or sth in one's mind)
念珠菌症	nian	zheng	(medicine) candidiasis; thrush
忸忸怩怩	niu	ni	timid; bashful
忻城县	xin	xian	Xincheng, a county in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
忻州市	xin	shi	Xinzhou, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
忻府区	xin	qu	Xinfu, a district of Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
忽上忽下	hu	xia	to fluctuate sharply
忽冷忽热	hu	re	now hot, now cold; (of one's mood, affection etc) to alternate
忽必烈	hu	lie	Khubilai Khan (1215-1294), grandson of Genghis Khan 成吉思汗, first Yuan dynasty emperor, reigned 1260-1294
忽忽不乐	hu	le	disappointed and unhappy; dispirited
忽忽悠悠	hu	you	indifferent to the passing of time; careless
忽略不计	hu	ji	to disregard (sth seen as negligible); to neglect (sth seen as insignificant)
忽隐忽现	hu	xian	intermittent; now you see it, now you don't
忽高忽低	hu	di	alternately soaring and plunging
忽鲁谟斯	hu	si	old Chinese name for Hormuz; now called 霍爾木茲|霍尔木兹
忿忿不平	fen	ping	variant of 憤憤不平|愤愤不平[fen4 fen4 bu4 ping2]
怀仁堂	huai	tang	Huairen Hall or Huairentang, a building inside Zhongnanhai 中南海[Zhong1 nan2 hai3], used as the main meeting place of the Politburo of the CCP
怀仁市	huai	shi	Huairen, a county-level city in Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
怀俄明	huai	ming	Wyoming, US state
怀化县	huai	xian	Huaihua county, Hunan
怀化市	huai	shi	Huaihua, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
怀宁县	huai	xian	Huaining, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
怀安县	huai	xian	Huai'an, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
怀恨在心	huai	xin	to harbor hard feelings
怀才不遇	huai	yu	to have talent but no opportunity (idiom); to be an unrecognized talent
怀旧感	huai	gan	feeling of nostalgia
怀来县	huai	xian	Huailai, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
怀柔区	huai	qu	Huairou, a district of Beijing
怀氏虎鸫	huai	dong	(bird species of China) White's thrush (Zoothera aurea)
怀特岛	huai	dao	Isle of Wight, island off the south coast of England
怀璧其罪	huai	zui	lit. treasuring a jade ring becomes a crime (idiom); to get into trouble on account of a cherished item; fig. A person's talent will arouse the envy of others.
怀疑派	huai	pai	the skeptics
怀远县	huai	xian	Huaiyuan, a county in Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
怀集县	huai	xian	Huaiji, a county in Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
态叠加	tai	jia	superposition of states (quantum mechanics)
怅怅然	chang	ran	disappointed
怅然若失	chang	shi	(idiom) to feel a profound sense of loss; to feel disconsolate
怎一个愁字了得	zen	de	(last line of the poem 聲聲慢|声声慢[Sheng1 sheng1 Man4] by Song poet Li Qingzhao 李清照[Li3 Qing1 zhao4]); how can it be expressed in one word, "sorrow"?; how can words express such sadness?
怎么了	zen	le	What's up?; What's going on?; What happened?
怎么办	zen	ban	what's to be done
怎么回事	zen	shi	what's the matter?; what's going on?; how could that be?
怎么得了	zen	liao	how can this be?; what's to be done?; what an awful mess!
怎么搞的	zen	de	How did it happen?; What's wrong?; What went wrong?
怎么样	zen	yang	how?; how about?; how was it?
怎么着	zen	zhao	what?; how?; how about?
怎么说呢	zen	ne	Why is that?; How come?
怒不可遏	nu	e	unable to restrain one's anger (idiom); in a towering rage
怒冲冲	nu	chong	furiously
怒发冲冠	nu	guan	lit. hair stands up in anger and tips off one's hat (idiom); fig. seething in anger; raise one's hackles
怒容满面	nu	mian	scowling in anger; rage written across one's face
怒形于色	nu	se	to betray anger (idiom); fury written across one's face
怒气冲冲	nu	chong	(idiom) spitting anger; in a rage
怒气攻心	nu	xin	(TCM) sudden strong emotions attacking the heart, leading to faints etc; (fig.) to fly into a fit of anger
怒江傈僳族自治州	nu	zhou	Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
怒江大峡谷	nu	gu	the Grand Canyon of the Nujiang river in Tibet and Yunnan
怒江州	nu	zhou	see 怒江傈僳族自治州[Nu4 jiang1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
怒目切齿	nu	chi	to gnash one's teeth in anger
怒目相向	nu	xiang	to glower at each other (idiom)
怒目而视	nu	shi	(idiom) to glare at
怔神儿	zheng	r	lost in thought; in a daze
怕死鬼	pa	gui	afraid to die (contemptuous term)
怕老婆	pa	po	henpecked; to be under one's wife's thumb
怙恶不悛	hu	quan	to keep doing evil without a sense of repentance (idiom)
怛罗斯之战	da	zhan	Battle of Talas (751), military engagement in the valley of the Talas River 塔拉斯河[Ta3 la1 si1 He2], in which Arab forces defeated Tang armies, marking the end of Tang westward expansion
怜香惜玉	lian	yu	to have tender, protective feelings for the fairer sex (idiom)
思乐冰	si	bing	Slurpee (drink)
思乡病	si	bing	homesickness
思前想后	si	hou	to consider past cause and future effect (idiom); to think over the past and future; to ponder over reasons and connection
思南县	si	xian	Sinan, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
思嘉丽	si	li	Scarlett (name); also written 斯嘉麗|斯嘉丽[Si1 jia1 li4]
思密达	si	da	(slang) (used at the end of a sentence to mimic Korean speech) (loanword from Korean verb ending "seumnida"); (jocular) a Korean
思想交流	si	liu	exchange of ideas
思想体系	si	xi	system of thought; ideology
思想包袱	si	fu	sth weighing on one's mind
思想史	si	shi	intellectual history
思想家	si	jia	thinker
思想库	si	ku	think tank
思想意识	si	shi	consciousness
思想顽钝	si	dun	blunt thinking; apathy
思明区	si	qu	Siming, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
思春期	si	qi	age when girls start to develop feelings for the opposite sex; puberty
思来想去	si	qu	(idiom) to mull sth over
思潮起伏	si	fu	thoughts surging in one's mind (idiom); different thoughts coming to mind
思维地图	si	tu	mind map
思维导图	si	tu	mind map
思维敏捷	si	jie	quick-witted; agile of mind
思茅区	si	qu	Simao, a district of Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
思茅市	si	shi	Simao city in Yunnan, renamed Pu'er city 普洱市 in 2007
思觉失调	si	tiao	psychosis
思路敏捷	si	jie	quick-witted
怡保市	yi	shi	Ipoh city in Malaysia, capital of Sultanate of Perak on Malayan peninsula
怡然自得	yi	de	happy and content (idiom)
怡颜悦色	yi	se	happy countenance
急不及待	ji	dai	see 急不可待[ji2 bu4 ke3 dai4]
急不可待	ji	dai	(idiom) impatient; eager to (do sth); unable to wait any longer
急不可耐	ji	nai	unable to wait
急中生智	ji	zhi	quick witted in an emergency; able to react resourcefully
急于星火	ji	huo	see 急如星火[ji2 ru2 xing1 huo3]
急于求成	ji	cheng	anxious for quick results (idiom); to demand instant success; impatient for result; impetuous
急人之难	ji	nan	anxious to help others resolve difficulties (idiom)
急先锋	ji	feng	daring vanguard; pioneer; leading figure
急公好义	ji	yi	public-spirited
急刹车	ji	che	emergency braking
急功近利	ji	li	seeking instant benefit (idiom); shortsighted vision, looking only for fast return
急匆匆	ji	cong	hurried; hasty
急吼吼	ji	hou	impatient
急嘴急舌	ji	she	lit. quick mouth and quick tongue; fig. to interrupt sb urgently and say one's piece; to chime in rapidly
急如星火	ji	huo	lit. as hurried as a shooting star (idiom); requiring immediate action; extremely urgent
急婚族	ji	zu	(coll.) those who are in a rush to get married
急急忙忙	ji	mang	hurriedly
急性人	ji	ren	impetuous person; excitable person
急性子	ji	zi	impetuous person; excitable person
急性照射	ji	she	acute exposure
急性病	ji	bing	acute illness; fig. impetuous; impatient
急性肠炎	ji	yan	acute enteritis
急性阑尾炎	ji	yan	acute appendicitis (medicine)
急拍拍	ji	pai	hurried; impatient; rushed
急救包	ji	bao	first-aid kit
急救站	ji	zhan	emergency desk; first aid office
急救箱	ji	xiang	first-aid kit
急行军	ji	jun	rapid advance; forced march
急诊室	ji	shi	emergency room
急赤白脸	ji	lian	to worry oneself sick; to fret
急转弯	ji	wan	to make a sudden turn
急转直下	ji	xia	to develop rapidly after abrupt turn (idiom); dramatic change
怦然心动	peng	dong	(idiom) to feel a rush of excitement
性交易	xing	yi	prostitution; commercial sex; the sex trade
性交高潮	xing	chao	orgasm
性产业	xing	ye	the sex industry
性价比	xing	bi	cost-performance ratio
性伙伴	xing	ban	sexual partner
性传播	xing	bo	sexually transmitted
性伴侣	xing	lv	sex partner
性侵害	xing	hai	sexual assault (law)
性侵犯	xing	fan	to assault sexually; to molest
性偏好	xing	hao	sexual preference
性健康	xing	kang	sexual health
性关系	xing	xi	sexual relations; sexual contact; intercourse
性冲动	xing	dong	sex drive
性冷感	xing	gan	frigidity (lack of libido)
性冷淡	xing	dan	frigidity
性别歧视	xing	shi	sex discrimination; sexism
性别比	xing	bi	sex ratio
性别角色	xing	se	gender role
性别认同障碍	xing	ai	gender identity disorder (GID); gender dysphoria
性取向	xing	xiang	sexual orientation
性变态	xing	tai	sexual perversion; sexual pervert
性同一性障碍	xing	ai	gender identity disorder
性同意	xing	yi	sexual consent
性命攸关	xing	guan	vitally important; a matter of life and death
性器官	xing	guan	sexual organ
性器期	xing	qi	phallic stage (psychology)
性奴隶	xing	li	sex slave
性工作	xing	zuo	employment as sex worker; prostitution
性工作者	xing	zhe	sex worker
性幻想	xing	xiang	sexual fantasy; to fantasize sexually about (sb)
性张力	xing	li	sexual tension
性快感	xing	gan	sexual pleasure
性恶论	xing	lun	"human nature is evil", theory advocated by Xunzi 荀子[Xun2 zi3]
性成熟	xing	shu	sexual maturity
性指向	xing	xiang	sexual orientation
性接触	xing	chu	sexual contact
性教育	xing	yu	sex education
性暗示	xing	shi	sexual innuendo; indirect sexual suggestion in words, gestures, images etc
性服务	xing	wu	sexual service; prostitution
性服务产业	xing	ye	sex service industry
性格不合	xing	he	incompatibility of temperament
性欲高潮	xing	chao	orgasm
性满足	xing	zu	sexual gratification
性激素	xing	su	sex hormone
性物恋	xing	lian	(sexual) fetishism
性玩物	xing	wu	sex object; sexual plaything
性生活	xing	huo	sex life
性疾病	xing	bing	sexually transmitted disease; venereal disease
性短讯	xing	xun	sexually explicit text message; sext
性禁忌	xing	ji	sexual taboo
性细胞	xing	bao	sexual cell; germline cell; gamete
性蕾期	xing	qi	phallic stage (psychology)
性虐待	xing	dai	sexual abuse
性行为	xing	wei	sexual behavior
性质命题	xing	ti	categorical proposition (logic)
性贿赂	xing	lu	to sexually bribe
性骚扰	xing	rao	sexual harassment
性高潮	xing	chao	orgasm; climax
怨不得	yuan	de	cannot blame; no wonder
怨声载道	yuan	dao	lit. cries of complaint fill the roads (idiom); complaints rise all around; discontent is openly voiced
怨天尤人	yuan	ren	(idiom) to blame the gods and accuse others
怨天载道	yuan	dao	lit. cries of complaint fill the roads (idiom); complaints rise all around; discontent is openly voiced
怨气冲天	yuan	tian	(idiom) extremely resentful
怪不得	guai	de	no wonder!; so that's why!
怪叔叔	guai	shu	queer uncle, referring to a young to middle-aged male pedophile (Internet slang)
怪声怪气	guai	qi	strange voice; affected manner of speaking
怪念头	guai	tou	eccentric notion; strange whim
怪模怪样	guai	yang	outlandish; strange-looking; grotesque
怪腔怪调	guai	diao	(idiom) strange accent; odd manner of speaking or singing
怪蜀黍	guai	shu	see 怪叔叔[guai4 shu1 shu5]
怪诞不经	guai	jing	uncanny; unbelievable; ridiculous
怪里怪气	guai	qi	eccentric; odd-looking; peculiar
怯声怯气	qie	qi	to speak in a frightened voice that lacks courage (idiom)
怯生生	qie	sheng	shy
怵目惊心	chu	xin	lit. shocks the eye, astonishes the heart (idiom); shocking; horrible to see; a ghastly sight
总主教	zong	jiao	archbishop; primate (of a church); metropolitan
总书记	zong	ji	general secretary (of the Communist Party)
总产值	zong	zhi	gross product; total output
总产量	zong	liang	total output
总人口	zong	kou	total population
总会三明治	zong	zhi	(Tw) club sandwich (variant of 總匯三明治|总汇三明治[zong3 hui4 san1 ming2 zhi4])
总会会长	zong	zhang	president of the association
总体上说	zong	shuo	looking at the big picture; all in all; all things considered
总体目标	zong	biao	overall target; overall objective
总体经济学	zong	xue	(Tw) macroeconomics
总体规划	zong	hua	overall plan; master plan
总供给	zong	ji	aggregate supply
总公司	zong	si	parent company; head office
总决赛	zong	sai	finals (sports)
总动员	zong	yuan	general mobilization (for war etc)
总医院	zong	yuan	general hospital
总卵黄管	zong	guan	(flatworm anatomy) common vitelline duct, formed by the union of vitelline ducts and entering the ootype
总参谋部	zong	bu	(military) General Staff Headquarters
总参谋长	zong	zhang	(military) Chief of Staff
总司令	zong	ling	commander-in-chief; top military commander for a country or theater of operations
总司令部	zong	bu	general headquarters
总后勤部	zong	bu	(military) General Logistics Department
总吨位	zong	wei	overall tonnage (of a shipping fleet or company)
总回报	zong	bao	total return; aggregate profit
总干事	zong	shi	secretary-general
总平面图	zong	tu	general layout; site plan
总开关	zong	guan	main switch
总成本	zong	ben	total costs
总指挥部	zong	bu	general headquarters
总收入	zong	ru	gross income
总收益	zong	yi	total profit; aggregate return
总政治部	zong	bu	(military) General Political Department
总方针	zong	zhen	general policy; overall guidelines
总杆赛	zong	sai	stroke play (golf)
总次数	zong	shu	total number of times
总汇三明治	zong	zhi	(Tw) club sandwich
总法律顾问	zong	wen	general counsel
总热值	zong	zhi	gross calorific value
总理衙门	zong	men	the Qing dynasty equivalent of the Foreign Office
总的来说	zong	shuo	generally speaking; to sum up; in summary
总管理处	zong	chu	headquarters; main administrative office
总经理	zong	li	general manager; CEO
总统任期	zong	qi	presidential term of office; presidency
总统制	zong	zhi	presidential system
总统大选	zong	xuan	presidential election
总统府	zong	fu	presidential palace
总统选举	zong	ju	presidential election
总编辑	zong	ji	chief editor (of newspaper)
总而言之	zong	zhi	in short; in a word; in brief
总装备部	zong	bu	General Armaments Department (GAD)
总角之交	zong	jiao	(idiom) childhood friend
总角之好	zong	hao	(idiom) childhood friend
总谐波失真	zong	zhen	(acoustics) total harmonic distortion (THD)
总运单	zong	dan	master air waybill (MAWB) (transport)
总需求	zong	qiu	aggregate demand
总领事	zong	shi	consul general
总领事馆	zong	guan	consulate general
总领馆	zong	guan	consulate general; same as 總領事館|总领事馆[zong3 ling3 shi4 guan3]
恃强凌弱	shi	ruo	see 恃強欺弱|恃强欺弱[shi4 qiang2 qi1 ruo4]
恃强欺弱	shi	ruo	to use one's strength to mistreat people (idiom); to bully
恃才傲物	shi	wu	(idiom) to be inordinately proud of one's ability; to be conceited and contemptuous
恋尸癖	lian	pi	necrophilia
恋恋不舍	lian	she	reluctant to part
恋旧情结	lian	jie	dwelling on the past; difficulty in adapting to changes
恋母情结	lian	jie	Oedipus complex
恋父情结	lian	jie	Electra complex
恋物狂	lian	kuang	(sexual) fetishism
恋物癖	lian	pi	(sexual) fetishism
恋童犯	lian	fan	pedophile
恋童癖	lian	pi	pedophilia
恋童者	lian	zhe	child molester; pedophile
恋脚癖	lian	pi	foot fetish
恋足癖	lian	pi	foot fetish
恍如隔世	huang	shi	like a thing of the previous generation; as if it were a lifetime ago
恍然大悟	huang	wu	(idiom) to suddenly realize; to suddenly see the light
恍然醒悟	huang	wu	a sudden realization; to realize sth in a flash
恍若隔世	huang	shi	see 恍如隔世[huang3 ru2 ge2 shi4]
恐同症	kong	zheng	homophobia
恐怖主义	kong	yi	terrorism
恐怖主义者	kong	zhe	terrorist
恐怖分子	kong	zi	variant of 恐怖分子[kong3 bu4 fen4 zi3]
恐怖片	kong	pian	horror movie; CL:部[bu4]
恐怖片儿	kong	r	erhua variant of 恐怖片[kong3 bu4 pian4]
恐怖电影	kong	ying	horror movie
恐怖症	kong	zheng	phobia
恐怖组织	kong	zhi	terrorist organization
恐怖袭击	kong	ji	terrorist attack
恐惧症	kong	zheng	phobia
恐慌发作	kong	zuo	panic attack
恐旷症	kong	zheng	agoraphobia
恐水病	kong	bing	rabies
恐水症	kong	zheng	rabies; hydrophobia
恐血症	kong	zheng	blood phobia; hemophobia
恐韩症	kong	zheng	Koreaphobia
恐高症	kong	zheng	acrophobia; fear of heights
恐龙妹	kong	mei	ugly girl (slang)
恐龙总目	kong	mu	Dinosauria, superorder within class Sauropsida containing dinosaurs and birds
恐龙类	kong	lei	dinosaurs
恒加速度	heng	du	constant acceleration
恒压二极管	heng	guan	Zener diode
恒山区	heng	qu	Hengshan, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
恒星年	heng	nian	the sidereal year (astronomy); the year defined in terms of the fixed stars
恒星系	heng	xi	stellar system; galaxy
恒星际	heng	ji	interstellar; between the fixed stars
恒春半岛	heng	dao	Hengchun Peninsula in Pingtung County 屏東縣|屏东县[Ping2 dong1 Xian4], the southernmost point of Taiwan
恒河沙数	heng	shu	countless as the grains of sand in the Ganges (idiom)
恒河猴	heng	hou	rhesus macaque (Macaca mulatta); rhesus monkey; lit. river Ganges monkey of north India
恒温器	heng	qi	thermostat
恒生中资企业指数	heng	shu	Hang Seng China-Affiliated Corporations Index (HSCCI)
恒生指数	heng	shu	Hang Seng Index (Hong Kong stock market index)
恒生银行	heng	hang	Hang Seng Bank, Hong Kong
恒等式	heng	shi	identity (math.)
恒速率	heng	lv	constant velocity
恕我冒昧	shu	mei	if I may be so bold
恙虫病	yang	bing	(medicine) scrub typhus; bush typhus; tsutsugamushi disease
恢复原状	hui	zhuang	to restore sth to its original state
恢复名誉	hui	yu	to rehabilitate; to regain one's good name
恢复常态	hui	tai	to return to normal
恢复期	hui	qi	convalescence
恢恢有余	hui	yu	lit. to have an abundance of space; room to maneuver (idiom)
恣意妄为	zi	wei	to behave unscrupulously
恣行无忌	zi	ji	to behave recklessly
恨不得	hen	de	wishing one could do sth; to hate to be unable; itching to do sth
恨不能	hen	neng	see 恨不得[hen4 bu5 de5]
恨之入骨	hen	gu	to hate sb to the bone (idiom)
恨天高	hen	gao	(slang) sky-high heels; ultra-high-heeled shoes
恨海难填	hen	tian	sea of hatred is hard to fill (idiom); irreconcilable division
恨铁不成钢	hen	gang	lit. disappointed that iron does not turn into steel (idiom); fig. frustrated with sb who has failed to meet one's expectations
恩同再造	en	zao	(idiom) a great life-saving favor
恩培多克勒	en	lei	Empedocles (490-430 BC), Greek Sicilian pre-Socratic philosopher
恩威兼施	en	shi	to employ both kindness and severity (idiom)
恩将仇报	en	bao	to bite the hand that feeds one (idiom)
恩平市	en	shi	Enping, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
恩断义绝	en	jue	to split up; to break all ties
恩斯赫德	en	de	Enschede, city in the Netherlands
恩施县	en	xian	Enshi county in southwest Hubei
恩施州	en	zhou	see 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
恩施市	en	shi	Enshi, a county-level city in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
恩格尔	en	er	Engel (name); Ernst Engel (1821-1896), German statistician
恩格斯	en	si	Friedrich Engels (1820-1895), socialist philosopher and one of the founder of Marxism
恩比天大	en	da	to be as kind and benevolent as heaven (idiom)
恩贾梅纳	en	na	N'Djamena, capital of Chad
恩阳区	en	qu	Enyang, a district of Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
恬不知耻	tian	chi	to have no sense of shame
恭亲王	gong	wang	Grand Prince (Qing title)
恭喜发财	gong	cai	May you have a prosperous New Year! (New Year's greeting)
恭城县	gong	xian	see 恭城瑤族自治縣|恭城瑶族自治县[Gong1 cheng2 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
恭城瑶族自治县	gong	xian	Gongcheng Yao Autonomous County, in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
恭敬不如从命	gong	ming	deference is no substitute for obedience (idiom); (said to accept sb's request, invitation etc)
恭贺新禧	gong	xi	Happy New Year
息事宁人	xi	ren	to keep the peace; to patch up a quarrel (idiom)
息屏显示	xi	shi	always-on display (AOD)
息息相关	xi	guan	closely bound up (idiom); intimately related
息烽县	xi	xian	Xifeng, a county in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
恰亚诺夫	qia	fu	Alexander Chayanov (1888-1937), Soviet agrarian economist
恰到好处	qia	chu	it's just perfect; it's just right
恰如其分	qia	fen	(idiom) appropriate; apt; just right
恰帕斯州	qia	zhou	Chiapas, state in Mexico
恰恰相反	qia	fan	just the opposite
恰恰舞	qia	wu	(loanword) cha-cha; cha-cha-cha (dance)
恶事传千里	e	li	evil deeds spread a thousand miles (idiom); scandal spreads like wildfire
恶人先告状	e	zhuang	the guilty party files the suit; the thief cries thief
恶作剧	e	ju	practical joke; prank; to play a practical joke
恶凶凶	e	xiong	fierce
恶势力	e	li	evil forces; criminal elements
恶叉白赖	e	lai	evil behavior (idiom); brazen villainy
恶名儿	e	r	erhua variant of 惡名|恶名[e4 ming2]
恶名昭彰	e	zhang	infamous; notorious
恶名昭著	e	zhu	notorious; infamous
恶唑啉	e	lin	oxacillin
恶唑啉酮	e	tong	oxacillin
恶性循环	e	huan	vicious circle
恶性疟原虫	e	chong	plasmodium falciparum (malaria parasite)
恶性瘤	e	liu	malignant tumor
恶性肿瘤	e	liu	malignant tumor
恶性转移	e	yi	(medicine) metastasis
恶性通货膨胀	e	zhang	hyperinflation
恶恶实实	e	shi	very fierce
恶意中伤	e	shang	to slander maliciously
恶意代码	e	ma	malicious code (e.g. virus); malware
恶意软件	e	jian	malware (computing)
恶搞文化	e	hua	spoofing culture (Web-based genre in PRC acquiring cult status from 2005, involving humorous, satirical or fantastical videos, photo collections, texts, poems etc)
恶有恶报	e	bao	evil has its retribution (idiom); to suffer the consequences of one's bad deeds; sow the wind and reap the whirlwind (Hosea 8:7)
恶狠狠	e	hen	very fierce
恶病质	e	zhi	Cachexia (physical wasting associated with long-term illness)
恶言伤人	e	ren	to insult; to direct bad language at sb; to slag off
恶语中伤	e	shang	(idiom) to slander viciously
恶语伤人	e	ren	to insult; to direct bad language at sb; to slag off
恶贯满盈	e	ying	lit. strung through and filled with evil (idiom); filled with extreme evil; replete with vice; guilty of monstrous crimes
恶魔城	e	cheng	Castlevania (video game series)
恻隐之心	ce	xin	compassion
恼羞成怒	nao	nu	(idiom) to become enraged over a perceived humiliation
悄咪咪	qiao	mi	see 悄悄咪咪[qiao1 qiao1 mi1 mi1]
悄悄咪咪	qiao	mi	(dialect) quietly; stealthily
悄悄话	qiao	hua	whisperings; private words; confidences
悄无声息	qiao	xi	quietly; noiselessly
悄然无声	qiao	sheng	absolutely quiet
悉听尊便	xi	bian	(idiom) do as you see fit; do whatever you like; (I, we) leave it in your hands
悉德尼	xi	ni	Sidney or Sydney (name)
悉悉索索	xi	suo	(onom.) rustling sound (of clothing, leaves, snow etc); faint noises
悉达多	xi	duo	Siddhartha Gautama (563-485 BC), the historical Buddha and founder of Buddhism
悍然不顾	han	gu	outrageous and unconventional (idiom); flying in the face of (authority, convention, public opinion etc)
悔不当初	hui	chu	to regret one's past deeds (idiom)
悔之已晚	hui	wan	too late to be sorry
悔之无及	hui	ji	too late for regrets (idiom); It is useless to repent after the event.
悔恨交加	hui	jia	to feel remorse and shame (idiom)
悔过书	hui	shu	written repentance
悔过自新	hui	xin	to repent and start afresh (idiom); to turn over a new leaf
悠哉悠哉	you	zai	free and unconstrained (idiom); leisurely and carefree
悠哉游哉	you	zai	see 悠哉悠哉[you1 zai1 you1 zai1]
悠悠球	you	qiu	yo-yo (loanword)
悠游卡	you	ka	EasyCard (smart card used mainly for public transportation in Taiwan)
悠然神往	you	wang	thoughts wandering far away
患得患失	huan	shi	to worry about personal gains and losses
患病者	huan	zhe	person suffering (from a disease or poisoning); a patient
患难之交	huan	jiao	a friend in times of tribulations (idiom); a friend in need is a friend indeed
患难见真情	huan	qing	true sentiments are seen in hard times (idiom); you see who your true friends are when you go through tough times together; you see who your true friends are when you are in difficulties
悬壶济世	xuan	shi	practice medicine or pharmacy to help the people or public
悬崖勒马	xuan	ma	lit. to rein in the horse at the edge of the precipice (idiom); fig. to act in the nick of time
悬崖峭壁	xuan	bi	(idiom) sheer cliffs and precipitous rock faces
悬崖绝壁	xuan	bi	see 懸崖峭壁|悬崖峭壁[xuan2 ya2 qiao4 bi4]
悬挂式滑翔	xuan	xiang	hang-gliding
悬挂式滑翔机	xuan	ji	hang-glider
悬梁刺股	xuan	gu	to study assiduously and tirelessly (idiom); see also 頭懸梁，錐刺股|头悬梁，锥刺股[tou2 xuan2 liang2 , zhui1 ci4 gu3]
悬浮微粒	xuan	li	particulates; particulate matter
悬浮物	xuan	wu	suspended matter
悬浮窗	xuan	chuang	(computing) floating window
悬空寺	xuan	si	Xuankong Temple or Suspended Temple near Yanyuan in Shanxi
悬索桥	xuan	qiao	suspension bridge
悬羊头卖狗肉	xuan	rou	see 掛羊頭賣狗肉|挂羊头卖狗肉[gua4 yang2 tou2 mai4 gou3 rou4]
悬而未决	xuan	jue	(idiom) pending a decision; hanging in the balance
悬赏令	xuan	ling	an order to post a reward (for the capture of a criminal)
悬雍垂	xuan	chui	uvula (biology)
悲不自胜	bei	sheng	unable to control one's grief (idiom); overwrought; overcome with sorrow; heartbroken
悲剧性	bei	xing	tragic
悲剧缺陷	bei	xian	tragic flaw (Aristotle's hamartia)
悲喜交集	bei	ji	mixed feelings of grief and joy
悲喜剧	bei	ju	tragicomedy
悲声载道	bei	dao	lamentations fill the roads (idiom); severe suffering all around
悲天悯人	bei	ren	to bemoan the state of the universe and pity the fate of mankind
悲惨世界	bei	jie	Les Misérables (1862) by Victor Hugo 維克多·雨果|维克多·雨果[Wei2 ke4 duo1 · Yu3 guo3]
悲欢离合	bei	he	joys and sorrows; partings and reunions; the vicissitudes of life
悲歌当哭	bei	ku	to sing instead of weep (idiom)
悲痛欲绝	bei	jue	(idiom) to be overcome with grief
悼襄王	dao	wang	King Daoxiang of Zhao 趙國|赵国, reigned 245-236 BC
情不可却	qing	que	unable to refuse because of affection
情不自禁	qing	jin	(idiom) cannot refrain from; cannot help; cannot but
情人果	qing	guo	(Tw) pickled mangoes (burong mangga)
情人眼里出西施	qing	shi	lit. in the eyes of a lover appears 西施[Xi1 shi1] (idiom); fig. beauty is in the eye of the beholder
情人眼里有西施	qing	shi	In the eyes of the lover, a famous beauty (idiom). Beauty in the eye of the beholder
情人节	qing	jie	Valentine's Day
情何以堪	qing	kan	how can this be endured! (idiom)
情侣头像	qing	xiang	"lovers' avatar" – avatar that matches the avatar of a significant other (e.g. two halves of one image, two images drawn in a similar style etc), used to indicate a romantic relationship
情侣装	qing	zhuang	matching outfit for couples
情侣酒店	qing	dian	love hotel
情侣鹦鹉	qing	wu	lovebirds
情同手足	qing	zu	as close as one's hands and feet (idiom); loving one another as brothers; deep friendship; closely attached to one another
情同骨肉	qing	rou	as close as flesh and bones (idiom); deep friendship
情境模型	qing	xing	situational model
情定终身	qing	shen	(idiom) to pledge eternal love; to exchange marriage vows
情急之下	qing	xia	in a moment of desperation
情急了	qing	liao	mythical talking bird; mynah bird
情急智生	qing	sheng	inspiration in a moment of desperation (idiom); also written 情急之下
情感分析	qing	xi	sentiment analysis
情投意合	qing	he	(idiom) to have an affinity with each other; to find each other congenial
情报处	qing	chu	intelligence office; intelligence section
情景喜剧	qing	ju	sitcom
情有可原	qing	yuan	pardonable (of interruption, misunderstanding etc)
情有独钟	qing	zhong	to have a special fondness (for sth)
情比金坚	qing	jian	love is more solid than gold (idiom)
情真意切	qing	qie	(idiom) sincere; heartfelt
情窦初开	qing	kai	first awakening of love (usually of a girl) (idiom)
情绪价值	qing	zhi	emotional value
情绪化	qing	hua	emotional; sentimental
情绪商数	qing	shu	emotional intelligence quotient (EQ)
情绪智商	qing	shang	emotional intelligence (EQ)
情绪状态	qing	tai	emotional state
情趣商店	qing	dian	adult shop
情趣玩具	qing	ju	sex toy
情趣用品	qing	pin	adult product; sex toy
情趣酒店	qing	dian	love hotel
情逾骨肉	qing	rou	feelings deeper than for one's own flesh and blood (idiom); deep friendship
情随事迁	qing	qian	feelings change with circumstances (idiom)
情非得已	qing	yi	compelled by the circumstances (to do sth); (have) no other choice (but do sth); (used as a pun in romance) can't help but fall in love
惊世骇俗	jing	su	universally shocking; to offend the whole of society
惊为天人	jing	ren	(lit.) to be astonished as if beholding a heavenly being (idiom); (fig.) to be astounded by sb's or sth's extraordinary beauty or excellence
惊人之举	jing	ju	to astonish people (with a miraculous feat)
惊叹不已	jing	yi	to exclaim in astonishment
惊叹号	jing	hao	exclamation point; exclamation mark (!)
惊喜若狂	jing	kuang	pleasantly surprised like mad (idiom); capering madly with joy; to express boundless pleasure
惊天动地	jing	di	(idiom) world-shaking
惊师动众	jing	zhong	to alarm everyone; to scandalize the public
惊弓之鸟	jing	niao	(lit.) a bird startled by the mere twang of a bow (idiom); (fig.) sb who frightens easily, due to past experiences
惊心动魄	jing	po	(idiom) heart-stopping; hair-raising; breathtaking
惊心胆颤	jing	chan	frightening; frightened (idiom)
惊恐万状	jing	zhuang	convulsed with fear (idiom)
惊恐翼龙	jing	long	Phobetor (genus of pterodactyloid pterosaur)
惊惶失措	jing	cuo	see 驚慌失措|惊慌失措[jing1 huang1 shi1 cuo4]
惊慌失措	jing	cuo	to lose one's head out of fear (idiom)
惊慌失色	jing	se	to go pale in panic (idiom)
惊涛骇浪	jing	lang	perilous situation
惊群动众	jing	zhong	to alarm everyone; to scandalize the public
惊险片	jing	pian	(cinema) thriller
惊魂动魄	jing	po	see 驚心動魄|惊心动魄[jing1 xin1 dong4 po4]
惊魂甫定	jing	ding	to have just recovered from a shock
惘然若失	wang	shi	lit. to be frustrated as though having lost sth (idiom); fig. to be at a loss; perplexed
惜寸阴	xi	yin	to cherish every moment; to make good use of one's time
惜香怜玉	xi	yu	see 憐香惜玉|怜香惜玉[lian2 xiang1 xi1 yu4]
惟利是图	wei	tu	variant of 唯利是圖|唯利是图[wei2 li4 shi4 tu2]
惟命是听	wei	ting	see 唯命是從|唯命是从[wei2 ming4 shi4 cong2]
惟妙惟肖	wei	xiao	to imitate to perfection; to be remarkably true to life
惠东县	hui	xian	Huidong, a county in Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
惠农区	hui	qu	Huinong, a district of Shizuishan City 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 Shi4], Ningxia
惠城区	hui	qu	Huicheng, a district of Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
惠安县	hui	xian	Hui'an, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
惠山区	hui	qu	Huishan, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
惠州市	hui	shi	Huizhou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
惠斯勒	hui	le	Whistler (name)
惠斯特	hui	te	whist (loanword)
惠普公司	hui	si	Hewlett-Packard; HP
惠更斯	hui	si	Huygens (name); Christiaan Huygens (1629-1695), Dutch mathematician and astronomer
惠来县	hui	xian	Huilai, a county in Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
惠民县	hui	xian	Huimin, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
惠水县	hui	xian	Huishui, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
惠济区	hui	qu	Huiji, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
惠灵顿	hui	dun	Wellington, capital of New Zealand
惠特曼	hui	man	Walt Whitman (1819–1892), American poet and journalist
惠而不费	hui	fei	a kind act that costs nothing
惠远寺	hui	si	Huiyuan Monastery in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
惠阳区	hui	qu	Huiyang, a district of Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
惧高症	ju	zheng	acrophobia; fear of heights
惨不忍睹	can	du	lit. so horrible that one cannot bear to look (idiom); fig. miserable; horrendous; atrocious
惨不忍闻	can	wen	(idiom) dreadful to hear
惨无人道	can	dao	inhuman (idiom); brutal and unfeeling
惨淡经营	can	ying	to manage by painstaking effort (idiom)
惨绝人寰	can	huan	extremely tragic (idiom); with unprecedented brutality
惨遭不幸	can	xing	to meet with disaster; to die tragically
惩一儆百	cheng	bai	lit. punish one to warn one hundred (idiom); fig. to make an example of sb
惩一警百	cheng	bai	variant of 懲一儆百|惩一儆百[cheng2 yi1 jing3 bai3]
惩前毖后	cheng	hou	lit. to punish those before to prevent those after (idiom); to criticize former mistakes firmly to prevent them happening again
惩恶劝善	cheng	shan	see 懲惡揚善|惩恶扬善[cheng2 e4 yang2 shan4]
惩恶扬善	cheng	shan	to uphold virtue and condemn evil (idiom)
惩罚性	cheng	xing	punitive
惯性系	guan	xi	inertial system; inertial frame (mechanics)
惯用手	guan	shou	dominant hand
惯用语	guan	yu	commonly used phrase; idiom; colloquial usage
惰性气体	duo	ti	(chemistry) inert gas (esp. a noble gas)
想不到	xiang	dao	unexpected; hard to imagine; it had not occurred to me
想不开	xiang	kai	cannot figure out; to be unable to take a lighter view; to take things too hard
想不通	xiang	tong	unable to understand; unable to get over
想也没想	xiang	xiang	without a second thought
想倒美	xiang	mei	see 想得美[xiang3 de5 mei3]
想像力	xiang	li	conception; imagination
想入非非	xiang	fei	to indulge in fantasy (idiom); to let one's imagination run wild
想当然	xiang	ran	to take sth as given; to make assumptions
想当然尔	xiang	er	to take sth as given; to assume; as one would expect
想当然耳	xiang	er	variant of 想當然爾|想当然尔[xiang3 dang1 ran2 er3]
想得开	xiang	kai	to not take to heart; to be free of worried thoughts; to adopt a lighthearted perspective
想得美	xiang	mei	to have an unrealistically optimistic expectation; (as an interjection) what a dreamer!
想想看	xiang	kan	to think about it
想方设法	xiang	fa	to think up every possible method (idiom); to devise ways and means; to try this, that and the other
想象力	xiang	li	imagination
想起来	xiang	lai	to remember; to recall
惴惴不安	zhui	an	to be on tenterhooks (idiom); to be anxious and frightened
惶恐不安	huang	an	anxious; panicky
惹不起	re	qi	can't afford to offend; dare not provoke; difficult to deal with
惹乱子	re	zi	to stir up trouble; to get into trouble
惹事生非	re	fei	variant of 惹是生非[re3 shi4 sheng1 fei1]
惹人厌	re	yan	annoying; disgusting
惹人心烦	re	fan	to annoy people; to be a pain in the neck
惹人注意	re	yi	to attract attention
惹人注目	re	mu	to attract attention; noticeable
惹娄子	re	zi	to stir up trouble; to bring trouble upon oneself
惹是生非	re	fei	to stir up trouble
惹是非	re	fei	to stir up trouble
惹楼子	re	zi	variant of 惹婁子|惹娄子[re3 lou2 zi5]
惹火烧身	re	shen	stir up the fire and you get burnt (idiom); to get one's fingers burnt; fig. to suffer on account of one's own meddling
惹草拈花	re	hua	see 拈花惹草[nian1 hua1 re3 cao3]
惹草沾花	re	hua	see 沾花惹草[zhan1 hua1 re3 cao3]
惹麻烦	re	fan	to create difficulties; to be troublesome; to invite trouble
惺惺作态	xing	tai	(idiom) to put on an act
惺惺惜惺惺	xing	xing	see 惺惺相惜[xing1 xing1 xiang1 xi1]
惺惺相惜	xing	xi	(lit.) people of talent appreciate one another (idiom); (fig.) to feel an affinity with (sb); to feel a bond with
愁眉不展	chou	zhan	with a worried frown
愁眉苦脸	chou	lian	to look anxious (idiom); to look miserable
愁肠百结	chou	jie	hundred knots of worry in one's intestines (idiom); weighed down with anxiety
愈伤组织	yu	zhi	(botany) callus
愈描愈黑	yu	hei	see 越描越黑[yue4 miao2 yue4 hei1]
愈来愈	yu	yu	more and more
愈演愈烈	yu	lie	ever more critical; problems get more and more intense
意下如何	yi	he	how about it?; what do you think?
意中事	yi	shi	sth that is expected or wished for
意中人	yi	ren	sweetheart; one's true love; the person of one's thoughts
意义变化	yi	hua	change of meaning
意兴索然	yi	ran	to have no interest in sth
意向书	yi	shu	letter of intent (LOI) (commerce)
意味深长	yi	chang	profound; significant; meaningful
意味着	yi	zhe	to signify; to mean; to imply
意外事故	yi	gu	accident
意大利	yi	li	Italy
意大利人	yi	ren	Italian person
意大利直面	yi	mian	spaghetti
意大利语	yi	yu	Italian (language)
意大利青瓜	yi	gua	zucchini
意大利青酱	yi	jiang	pesto (sauce made with basil, garlic, olive oil, pine nuts and cheese)
意大利面	yi	mian	spaghetti; pasta
意存笔先画尽意在	yi	zai	the idea is present before the first stroke of the brush, when the last stroke is placed the idea shines through
意式奶冻	yi	dong	panna cotta
意志力	yi	li	willpower
意念移物	yi	wu	telekinesis
意思意思	yi	si	to do a little something as a token of one's appreciation; to express one's gratitude or esteem by treating sb to a meal or presenting a gift
意想不到	yi	dao	unexpected; previously unimagined
意料之中	yi	zhong	to come as no surprise; as expected
意料之外	yi	wai	(idiom) contrary to expectation; unexpected
意气用事	yi	shi	(idiom) to let emotions affect one's decisions
意气相投	yi	tou	congenial
意气风发	yi	fa	(idiom) high-spirited; full of mettle
意犹未尽	yi	jin	to wish to continue sth; to have not fully expressed oneself
意第绪语	yi	yu	Yiddish language
意见不合	yi	he	to disagree; dissent
意见箱	yi	xiang	suggestion box
意见领袖	yi	xiu	opinion leader
意识到	yi	dao	to be aware of; to realize
意识型态	yi	tai	variant of 意識形態|意识形态[yi4 shi2 xing2 tai4]
意识形态	yi	tai	ideology
意识流	yi	liu	stream of consciousness (in literature)
愚不可及	yu	ji	impossibly stupid
愚人节	yu	jie	April Fools' Day
愚公移山	yu	shan	the old man moves mountains (idiom); fig. where there's a will, there's a way
愚昧无知	yu	zhi	stupid and ignorant (idiom)
感人肺腑	gan	fu	(idiom) deeply touching
感人至深	gan	shen	(idiom) deeply touching
感光鼓	gan	gu	toner cartridge
感兴趣	gan	qu	to be interested (in sth)
感冒药	gan	yao	medicine for colds
感化院	gan	yuan	reformatory; reform school
感受器	gan	qi	sensory receptor
感召力	gan	li	appeal; attraction; charisma
感叹句	gan	ju	exclamation; exclamatory phrase
感叹号	gan	hao	exclamation point; exclamation mark (!)
感叹词	gan	ci	interjection (part of speech); exclamation
感叹语	gan	yu	exclamation; expletive
感同身受	gan	shou	to feel as if it had happened to oneself; to sympathize; (polite expression of gratitude for a favor received by a friend etc) I take it as a personal favor
感天动地	gan	di	(idiom) deeply affecting
感应器	gan	qi	inductor (elec.)
感应线圈	gan	quan	induction coil; solenoid
感性工学	gan	xue	kansei engineering (product design that aims to engender specific subjective responses in the consumer) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 感性工学 "kansei kougaku")
感性认识	gan	shi	perceptual awareness
感恩图报	gan	bao	grateful and seeking to repay the kindness (idiom)
感恩戴德	gan	de	deeply grateful
感恩节	gan	jie	Thanksgiving Day
感情史	gan	shi	romantic history; romantic past
感情用事	gan	shi	to act impetuously (idiom); on an impulse
感染人数	gan	shu	number of infected persons
感染力	gan	li	infectiousness (of a disease); appeal; power; impact (of an image, marketing message, performance etc)
感染性腹泻	gan	xie	infective diarrhea
感染率	gan	lv	rate of infection (usu. of a disease)
感染者	gan	zhe	infected person
感测器	gan	qi	(Tw) sensor
感激不尽	gan	jin	can't thank sb enough (idiom)
感激涕零	gan	ling	to shed tears of gratitude (idiom); moved to tears
感知力	gan	li	perceptivity
感觉到	gan	dao	to feel; to sense; to detect
感觉器	gan	qi	sense organ
感觉器官	gan	guan	sense organs; the five senses
感遇诗	gan	shi	a lament (poem)
愣劲儿	leng	r	dash; pep; vigor
愣头愣脑	leng	nao	rash; impetuous; reckless
愣头青	leng	qing	reckless young person
愣神儿	leng	r	to stare blankly; to be in a daze
愤世嫉俗	fen	su	to be cynical; to be embittered
愤愤不平	fen	ping	to feel indignant; to feel aggrieved
愧不敢当	kui	dang	lit. I'm ashamed and dare not (accept the honor); fig. I do not deserve your praise.; You flatter me too much.
愧悔无地	kui	di	ashamed and unable to show one's face (idiom)
愿赌服输	yuan	shu	lit. if you agree to bet you must accept to lose; fig. you bet, you pay
愿闻其详	yuan	xiang	I'd like to hear the details
慈利县	ci	xian	Cili, a county in Zhangjiajie City 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 Shi4], Hunan
慈善家	ci	jia	philanthropist; humanitarian; charity donor
慈善抽奖	ci	jiang	a raffle (for charity)
慈善机构	ci	gou	charity
慈善组织	ci	zhi	charity organization
慈安太后	ci	hou	Empress Dowager Ci'an (1837-1881) of Qing
慈恩宗	ci	zong	see 法相宗[Fa3 xiang4 zong1]
慈悲为本	ci	ben	mercy as the guiding principle (idiom); the Buddhist teaching that nothing is valid except compassion
慈江道	ci	dao	Chagang province, in the north of North Korea
慈溪市	ci	shi	Cixi, a county-level city in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
慈照寺	ci	si	Jishōji in northeast Kyōto 京都, Japan, the official name of Ginkakuji or Silver pavilion 銀閣寺|银阁寺[yin2 ge2 si4]
慈眉善目	ci	mu	(idiom) kind-looking; benevolent-looking
慈眉善眼	ci	yan	see 慈眉善目[ci2 mei2 shan4 mu4]
慈福行动	ci	dong	Operation Blessing (charitable relief organization)
慈禧太后	ci	hou	Empress Dowager Cixi or Ts'u Hsi (1835-1908), regent 1861-1908
慌成一团	huang	tuan	(of a group of people) to run about helplessly
慌里慌张	huang	zhang	flustered; in a panic
慎终追远	shen	yuan	to pay careful attention to one's parents' funerary rites
慎重其事	shen	shi	to treat a matter with due consideration (idiom)
慕名而来	mu	lai	to come to a place on account of its reputation (idiom); attracted to visit a famous location
慕士塔格峰	mu	feng	Muztagh Ata, second highest peak of the Pamir Mountains
慕尼黑	mu	hei	München or Munich, capital of Bavaria, Germany
慕洋犬	mu	quan	(slang) (derog.) person who uncritically admires the West while disparaging China (pun on 牧羊犬[mu4 yang2 quan3])
慕田峪	mu	yu	Mutianyu, well-preserved section of the Great Wall 70km from Beijing
慕道友	mu	you	religious investigator
慢动作	man	zuo	(cinema) slow motion
慢化剂	man	ji	moderator
慢半拍	man	pai	(music) a half-beat behind; (fig.) rather slow (in performing a task, comprehending etc)
慢吞吞	man	tun	very slow; exasperatingly slow
慢城市	man	shi	slow-paced town
慢工出巧匠	man	jiang	patient work makes a skilled craftsman
慢工出细货	man	huo	patient work makes a fine product
慢性子	man	zi	slow-tempered; phlegmatic; a slowcoach
慢性疲劳症候群	man	qun	chronic fatigue syndrome (CFS)
慢性疼痛	man	tong	chronic pain
慢性疾病	man	bing	chronic illness; disease that takes effect slowly
慢性病	man	bing	chronic disease
慢性阻塞性肺病	man	bing	chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
慢悠悠	man	you	unhurried
慢慢吃	man	chi	Enjoy your meal!; Bon appetit!
慢慢吞吞	man	tun	very slow
慢慢来	man	lai	take your time; take it easy
慢条斯理	man	li	unhurried; calm; composed
慢热型	man	xing	slow to get started
慢生活	man	huo	slow living
慢腾腾	man	teng	leisurely; unhurried; sluggish
慢行道	man	dao	slow lane
慢速摄影	man	ying	slow shutter speed photography
慢镜头	man	tou	(cinema) slow motion
慰安妇	wei	fu	comfort woman (woman or girl forced into sex slavery by the Japanese military 1937-1945) (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 慰安婦 "ianfu")
慰问金	wei	jin	condolence payment; compensation given in cases of bereavement, serious injury or hardship
慷慨捐生	kang	sheng	sacrificing one's life generously (idiom); to sacrifice oneself fervently to the cause
慷慨激昂	kang	ang	impassioned; vehement
慷慨解囊	kang	nang	to contribute generously (idiom); help sb generously with money; to give generously to charity
慷慨赴义	kang	yi	heroically sacrificing one's life (idiom); to sacrifice oneself fervently to the cause
慷慨输将	kang	jiang	to donate generously (idiom)
憋不住	bie	zhu	to be unable to repress sth; to be unable to contain oneself
憨态可掬	han	ju	(of pandas, ducklings etc) adorable; cute
憨豆先生	han	sheng	Mr. Bean (TV)
憩室炎	qi	yan	diverticulitis
憩息处	qi	chu	rest area
懂门儿	dong	r	one who knows his business; professional; expert
懒人包	lan	bao	(Tw) (neologism c. 2007) information presented in easily assimilable form (digest, summary, infographic etc)
懒人沙发	lan	fa	beanbag
懒得搭理	lan	li	not wishing to acknowledge sb; unwilling to respond
懒洋洋	lan	yang	lazily
懒驴上磨屎尿多	lan	duo	(proverb) A lazy person will find many excuses to delay working; lit. When a lazy donkey is turning a grindstone, it takes a lot of time off for peeing and pooing
懒骨头	lan	tou	lazybones; beanbag
懵懵懂懂	meng	dong	(idiom) confused; ignorant; muddle-headed
戆头戆脑	gang	nao	stupid (Wu dialect)
戈兰高地	ge	di	Golan Heights
戈培尔	ge	er	Joseph Goebbels (1897-1945), German Nazi leader and politician
戈壁沙漠	ge	mo	Gobi Desert
戈壁滩	ge	tan	Gobi desert
戈壁荒滩	ge	tan	barren sands of the Gobi desert
戈尔巴乔夫	ge	fu	Gorbachev; Mikhail Sergeyevich Gorbachev (1931–2022), last president of the Soviet Union 1991–1995
戈德斯通	ge	tong	Goldstone (name)
戈斯拉尔	ge	er	Goslar, Germany
戈氏岩鹀	ge	wu	(bird species of China) Godlewski's bunting (Emberiza godlewskii)
戈氏金丝燕	ge	yan	(bird species of China) Germain's swiftlet (Aerodramus germani)
戊五醇	wu	chun	xylitol; also written 木糖醇[mu4 tang2 chun2]
戊唑醇	wu	chun	tebuconazole (antifungal agent)
戊型肝炎	wu	yan	hepatitis E
戊巴比妥钠	wu	na	pentasorbital sodium (a sedative)
戊戌六君子	wu	zi	the Six Gentlemen Martyrs of the failed reform movement of 1898, executed in its aftermath, namely: Tan Sitong 譚嗣同|谭嗣同[Tan2 Si4 tong2], Lin Xu 林旭[Lin2 Xu4], Yang Shenxiu 楊深秀|杨深秀[Yang2 Shen1 xiu4], Liu Guangdi 劉光第|刘光第[Liu2 Guang1 di4], Kang Guangren 康廣仁|康广仁[Kang1 Guang3 ren2] and Yang Rui 楊銳|杨锐[Yang2 Rui4]
戊戌变法	wu	fa	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
戊戌政变	wu	bian	coup by Dowager Empress Cixi 慈禧太后[Ci2 xi3 tai4 hou4] ending the 1898 attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
戊戌维新	wu	xin	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
戎事倥偬	rong	zong	a time of military urgency; war crisis
戎马生涯	rong	ya	army life (idiom); the experience of war
戏剧化	xi	hua	theatrical
戏剧化人格违常	xi	chang	histrionic personality disorder (HPD)
戏剧家	xi	jia	dramatist; playwright
戏剧性	xi	xing	dramatic
戏说剧	xi	ju	period costume drama (on TV)
成不了气候	cheng	hou	won't get far; unlikely to be successful
成也萧何败也萧何	cheng	he	lit. raised up by Xiao He, cast down by Xiao He (idiom), alluding to Han Xin 韓信|韩信[Han2 Xin4] being made Grand General 大將軍|大将军[da4 jiang1 jun1]; fig. a situation where one's success and failure are both due to the same factor
成事不足败事有余	cheng	yu	unable to accomplish anything but liable to spoil everything (idiom); unable to do anything right; never make, but always mar
成交价	cheng	jia	sale price; negotiated price; price reached at auction
成人之美	cheng	mei	(idiom) beauty of helping others succeed; act of helping sb fulfill their wish
成人向	cheng	xiang	suitable for adults
成人用品	cheng	pin	adult products; sex-related goods (condoms, lubricants, sex toys etc)
成人礼	cheng	li	coming of age ceremony
成份股	cheng	gu	share included in composite index
成何体统	cheng	tong	What a scandal!; Whatever next?
成则为王败则为寇	cheng	kou	lit. called a king if successful, called a bandit if defeated (idiom); fig. losers are always in the wrong
成功大学	cheng	xue	National Cheng Kung University (NCKU), a public research university in Tainan, Taiwan
成功感	cheng	gan	sense of accomplishment
成千上万	cheng	wan	(lit.) by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom); (fig.) untold numbers; innumerable; countless
成千成万	cheng	wan	lit. by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom); untold numbers; innumerable; thousands upon thousands
成千累万	cheng	wan	lit. by the thousands and tens of thousands (idiom); untold numbers; innumerable; thousands upon thousands
成华区	cheng	qu	Chenghua, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
成双作对	cheng	dui	see 成雙成對|成双成对[cheng2 shuang1 cheng2 dui4]
成双成对	cheng	dui	to form pairs; to be in couples
成反比	cheng	bi	to vary inversely; inversely proportional to
成吉思汗	cheng	han	Genghis Khan (1162-1227), founder and ruler of the Mongol Empire
成名作	cheng	zuo	seminal work that propels a writer (or artist, composer etc) to fame
成员国	cheng	guo	member country
成品油	cheng	you	refined oil
成均馆	cheng	guan	Koryo Seonggyungwan, university dating back to Korean Goryeo dynasty, in Gaesong, North Korea; Sungkyun kwan university, Seoul
成安县	cheng	xian	Cheng'an, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
成实宗	cheng	zong	Satyasiddhi school of Buddhism
成家立业	cheng	ye	to get married and start a career (idiom); to settle down; to establish oneself
成家立室	cheng	shi	to get married (idiom)
成就感	cheng	gan	sense of achievement
成年人	cheng	ren	adult person
成年累月	cheng	yue	year in, year out (idiom)
成年者	cheng	zhe	adult
成文法	cheng	fa	statute
成方儿	cheng	r	erhua form of 成方[cheng2 fang1]
成样子	cheng	zi	seemly; presentable
成武县	cheng	xian	Chengwu, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
成活率	cheng	lv	survival rate; rate of success
成王败寇	cheng	kou	see 成則為王，敗則為寇|成则为王，败则为寇[cheng2 ze2 wei2 wang2 , bai4 ze2 wei2 kou4]
成田机场	cheng	chang	Narita Airport (Tokyo)
成瘾性	cheng	xing	addictiveness
成百上千	cheng	qian	hundreds; a large number; lit. by the hundreds and thousands
成竹在胸	cheng	xiong	see 胸有成竹[xiong1 you3 cheng2 zhu2]
成绩单	cheng	dan	school report or transcript
成群结队	cheng	dui	(idiom) making up a group; forming a troupe; in large numbers; as a large crowd
成者为王败者为寇	cheng	kou	see 成則為王，敗則為寇|成则为王，败则为寇[cheng2 ze2 wei2 wang2 , bai4 ze2 wei2 kou4]
成语典故	cheng	gu	historical or literary anecdote that gives rise to a saying
成语接龙	cheng	long	game where the last word of one idiom 成語|成语[cheng2 yu3] is the first of the next
成败利钝	cheng	dun	succeed or fail, sharp or blunt (idiom); advantages and disadvantages; success and failure; You win some, you lose some.
成败在此一举	cheng	ju	success or failure depends on this single action; win or lose, it all ends here; this is the make-or-break moment
成败得失	cheng	shi	lit. success and failure, the gains and losses (idiom); fig. to weigh up various factors
成败论人	cheng	ren	to judge people based on their success or failure (idiom)
成都体育大学	cheng	xue	Chengdu Sports University
成都市	cheng	shi	Chengdu, sub-provincial city and capital of Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
成长型思维	cheng	wei	growth mindset
成长率	cheng	lv	growth rate
成问题	cheng	ti	to be a problem; problematic; questionable
成骨不全症	cheng	zheng	osteogenesis imperfecta (OI); brittle bone disease
我也是醉了	wo	le	(Internet slang) I can't even...; Are you kidding me!; OMG!
我勒个去	wo	qu	(slang) shoot!; crap!
我的世界	wo	jie	Minecraft (video game)
我行我素	wo	su	to continue in one's own way (idiom)
我这个人	wo	ren	me personally; the sort of person I am
我这儿	wo	r	where I am; my place
我醉欲眠	wo	mian	lit. I'm drunk and would like to sleep (idiom); (used to indicate one's sincere and straightforward nature)
戒严令	jie	ling	martial law
戒严区	jie	qu	restricted area; zone of application of the martial law
戒备森严	jie	yan	heavily-guarded
戒奢崇俭	jie	jian	(idiom) to refrain from extravagance and cherish frugality
戒毒所	jie	suo	drug rehabilitation center
戒治所	jie	suo	drug rehabilitation center
戒骄戒躁	jie	zao	to guard against pride and impatience (idiom); to remain modest and keep cool
或多或少	huo	shao	more or less
或然率	huo	lv	probability (math.)
战争与和平	zhan	ping	War and Peace by Tolstoy 托爾斯泰|托尔斯泰
战争罪	zhan	zui	war crime
战兢兢	zhan	jing	shaking with fear
战列舰	zhan	jian	battleship
战利品	zhan	pin	spoils of war
战国七雄	zhan	xiong	Seven Powerful States of the Warring States, namely: 齊|齐[Qi2], 楚[Chu3], 燕[Yan1], 韓|韩[Han2], 趙|赵[Zhao4], 魏[Wei4] and 秦[Qin2]
战国时代	zhan	dai	the Warring States period (475-221 BC); Japanese Warring States period (15th-17th century)
战国末	zhan	mo	late Warring States period, c. 250-221 BC before the First Emperor's Qin Dynasty
战国末年	zhan	nian	late Warring States period, c. 250-221 BC before the First Emperor's Qin Dynasty
战国策	zhan	ce	"Strategies of the Warring States", chronicle of the Warring States Period (475-220 BC), possibly written by Su Qin 蘇秦|苏秦[Su1 Qin2]
战壕热	zhan	re	trench fever
战战兢兢	zhan	jing	trembling with fear; with fear and trepidation
战战栗栗	zhan	li	to tremble with fear
战斗力	zhan	li	fighting strength
战斗机	zhan	ji	fighter (aircraft)
战斗群	zhan	qun	battle group; naval formation headed by an aircraft carrier
战斗者	zhan	zhe	fighter
战斗舰	zhan	jian	battleship
战斗营	zhan	ying	boot camp
战斗部	zhan	bu	warhead
战无不胜	zhan	sheng	(idiom) all-conquering; invincible
战无不胜攻无不克	zhan	ke	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering; ever victorious; nothing they can't do
战无不胜攻无不取	zhan	qu	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering; ever victorious; nothing they can't do
战术导弹	zhan	dan	tactical missile
战术核武器	zhan	qi	tactical nuclear weapons
战死沙场	zhan	chang	(idiom) to die in battle
战火纷飞	zhan	fei	fire of war everywhere (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
战略伙伴	zhan	ban	strategic partner
战略家	zhan	jia	a strategist
战略性	zhan	xing	strategic
战略核力量	zhan	liang	strategic nuclear force
战略核武器	zhan	qi	strategic nuclear weapon
战略要点	zhan	dian	strategic point
战略轰炸机	zhan	ji	strategic bomber
战略防御倡议	zhan	yi	strategic defense initiative (SDI)
戚继光	qi	guang	Qi Jiguang (1528-1588), military leader
戛戛独造	jia	zao	creative; original
戛然而止	jia	zhi	with a grunting sound it stops (idiom); to come to an end spontaneously (esp. of sound)
截拳道	jie	dao	Jeet Kun Do or Way of the Intercepting Fist, a fusion of Eastern and Western martial arts led by Bruce Lee 李小龍|李小龙[Li3 Xiao3 long2]
截止到	jie	dao	(before an expression indicating a point of time) up to (that point); as of (that time)
截止日	jie	ri	deadline; cut-off date
截止期限	jie	xian	deadline
截止至	jie	zhi	(before an expression indicating a point of time) up to (that point); as of (that time)
截然不同	jie	tong	entirely different; different as black and white
截长补短	jie	duan	take from the long to supplement the short (idiom); to offset each other's deficiencies; to complement each other
戮力同心	lu	xin	(idiom) to join forces to work towards a common goal
戳不住	chuo	zhu	not up to it; cannot stand the test
戳个儿	chuo	r	physique
戳份儿	chuo	r	to flaunt
戳刺感	chuo	gan	pins and needles (in muscle); paresthesia
戳壁脚	chuo	jiao	to criticize behind sb's back; back-biting
戳得住	chuo	zhu	up to it; can stand the test
戳心灌髓	chuo	sui	(idiom) to strike at one's core; to deeply hurt sb
戳痛点	chuo	dian	to touch a nerve
戳穿试验	chuo	yan	puncture test
戳脊梁	chuo	liang	to criticize behind sb's back; back-biting
戳脊梁骨	chuo	gu	to criticize behind sb's back; back-biting
戴克里先	dai	xian	Diocletian (c. 245-311), Roman emperor
戴名世	dai	shi	Dai Mingshi (1653-1713), early Qing writer
戴奥辛	dai	xin	dioxin, carcinogenic heterocyclic hydrocarbon (esp. Taiwan usage)
戴安娜	dai	na	Diana (name)
戴安娜王妃	dai	fei	Diana, Princess of Wales (1961-1997)
戴帽子	dai	zi	to wear a hat; (fig.) to stigmatize; to be branded as
戴月披星	dai	xing	see 披星戴月[pi1 xing1 dai4 yue4]
戴盆望天	dai	tian	lit. viewing the sky with a basin on one's head; it is hard to get a clear view of the sky while carrying a platter on one's head; fig. it is hard to get on in one's career while encumbered by family obligations; one can't perform a major task while bothered by other duties
戴秉国	dai	guo	Dai Bingguo (1941-), a Chinese politician and professional diplomat
戴维斯	dai	si	Davis or Davies (name)
戴维斯杯	dai	bei	Davis Cup (international tennis team competition)
戴维营	dai	ying	Camp David
戴绿头巾	dai	jin	see 戴綠帽子|戴绿帽子[dai4 lu:4 mao4 zi5]
戴绿帽子	dai	zi	to have been cheated on by one's partner (formerly meant "to be a cuckold", i.e. applied to men only)
戴菊鸟	dai	niao	kinglet; bird of Regulus genus
戴高乐	dai	le	Charles De Gaulle (1890–1970), French general and politician, leader of the Free French during World War II and president of the Republic 1959–1969
戴高帽子	dai	zi	(coll.) to be the object of flattery; to be placed on a pedestal
户口制	hu	zhi	PRC system of compulsory registration of households
户口制度	hu	du	PRC system of compulsory registration
户口名簿	hu	bu	(Tw) household registration certificate (identity document)
户口本	hu	ben	household register; household registration booklet; residence certificate
户口簿	hu	bu	household register
户告人晓	hu	xiao	to make known to every household (idiom); to disseminate widely; to shout from the rooftops
户枢不蠹	hu	du	lit. a door hinge never becomes worm-eaten; constant activity prevents decay (idiom)
户部尚书	hu	shu	Minister of Revenue (from the Han dynasty onwards)
户限为穿	hu	chuan	to have an endless stream of visitors (idiom)
房中房	fang	fang	room constructed within an existing room; self-contained living area within a house or apartment
房产中介	fang	jie	real estate agent
房产证	fang	zheng	title deeds; certificate of property ownership
房地产	fang	chan	real estate
房地美	fang	mei	Freddie Mac, US mortgage company; formerly Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.
房屋中介	fang	jie	housing agent; real estate agent
房山区	fang	qu	Fangshan, a district of Beijing
房牙子	fang	zi	real estate agent (old)
房玄龄	fang	ling	Fang Xuanling (579-648), Tang dynasty historian, compiler of History of Jin dynasty 晉書|晋书[Jin4 shu1]
房间里的大象	fang	xiang	the elephant in the room
所以然	suo	ran	the reason why
所作所为	suo	wei	one's conduct and deeds
所到之处	suo	chu	wherever one goes
所剩无几	suo	ji	there is not much left
所向披靡	suo	mi	(idiom) to sweep everything before one; to be invincible
所向无敌	suo	di	to be invincible; unrivalled
所在地	suo	di	location; site
所多玛	suo	ma	Sodom
所多玛与蛾摩拉	suo	la	Sodom and Gomorrah
所属单位	suo	wei	affiliated unit; subsidiary
所得税	suo	shui	income tax
所托非人	suo	ren	to entrust sth to the wrong person and get let down
所有主	suo	zhu	owner; proprietor
所有人	suo	ren	everyone; owner
所有制	suo	zhi	ownership of the means of production (in Marxism); system of ownership
所有权	suo	quan	ownership; possession; property rights
所有格	suo	ge	possessive case (grammar)
所有物	suo	wu	a possession; belongings
所有者	suo	zhe	proprietor; owner
所用非人	suo	ren	to choose the wrong person for the job
所罗巴伯	suo	bo	Zerubbabel (son of Shealtiel)
所罗门	suo	men	Solomon (name)
所罗门群岛	suo	dao	Solomon Islands
所见即所得	suo	de	What you see is what you get (WYSIWYG)
所见所闻	suo	wen	what one hears and sees (idiom)
所言不虚	suo	xu	see 所言非虛|所言非虚[suo3 yan2 fei1 xu1]
所言非虚	suo	xu	(after a pronoun or name) what (you, they etc) say is true
扁嘴海雀	bian	que	(bird species of China) ancient murrelet (Synthliboramphus antiquus)
扁平足	bian	zu	flat feet
扁形动物	bian	wu	flatworm; phylum of Platyhelminthes
扁担星	bian	xing	Altair and its two adjacent stars
扁桃体	bian	ti	tonsil
扁桃体炎	bian	yan	tonsillitis
扁桃腺	bian	xian	tonsil
扁桃腺炎	bian	yan	tonsillitis
扁锹形虫	bian	chong	giant stag beetle (Dorcus titanus)
扇尾沙锥	shan	zhui	(bird species of China) common snipe (Gallinago gallinago)
扇面琴	shan	qin	same as yangqin 揚琴|扬琴, dulcimer
扇风耳朵	shan	duo	protruding ears
手下留情	shou	qing	lit. start off leniently (idiom); please do not be too strict with me; Do not judge me too harshly.; Look favorably on my humble efforts.
手下败将	shou	jiang	(idiom) one's defeated opponent
手不释卷	shou	juan	lit. always with a book in hand (idiom); fig. (of a student or scholar) diligent and hardworking
手举牌	shou	pai	handheld sign; placard
手倒立	shou	li	handstand
手写体	shou	ti	handwritten form; cursive
手写笔	shou	bi	(computing) stylus pen
手写识别	shou	bie	handwriting recognition
手到拈来	shou	lai	lit. to stretch a hand and grab it (idiom); fig. easy to do
手到擒来	shou	lai	stretch a hand and grab it (idiom); very easy
手刹车	shou	che	handbrake
手动变速器	shou	qi	manual gearbox; manual transmission
手动挡	shou	dang	manual gear change; shift stick
手头现金	shou	jin	cash in hand
手头紧	shou	jin	short of money; hard up
手套箱	shou	xiang	glove compartment (of a car); glovebox (sealed compartment with attached gloves for handling hazardous materials etc)
手嶌葵	shou	kui	TESHIMA Aoi (1987-), Japanese female pop singer
手工业	shou	ye	handicraft
手工台	shou	tai	workbench
手工艺	shou	yi	handicraft; arts and crafts
手心手背都是肉	shou	rou	lit. both the palm and the back of the hand are made of flesh (idiom); fig. to both be of equal importance; to value both equally
手忙脚乱	shou	luan	(idiom) to act with confusion or in a disorderly manner; flustered
手扳葫芦	shou	lu	lever hoist pulley
手抄本	shou	ben	manuscript copy of a book (before the printing press)
手把手	shou	shou	(of instruction) step-by-step; hands-on
手抓羊肉	shou	rou	hand-held mutton (mutton pieces on the bone, eaten with the fingers)
手抓饭	shou	fan	pilaf (rice dish popular in many parts of the world, including Xinjiang); pilau
手抓饼	shou	bing	fluffy, flaky pancake (made with dough, not batter)
手拉手	shou	shou	to join hands; hand in hand
手拉葫芦	shou	lu	hand chain pulley block
手拉车	shou	che	cart
手拿包	shou	bao	clutch bag
手指头	shou	tou	fingertip; finger
手掌心	shou	xin	see 手心[shou3 xin1]
手推车	shou	che	trolley; cart; barrow
手提包	shou	bao	(hand)bag; hold-all
手提电脑	shou	nao	portable computer
手提箱	shou	xiang	suitcase
手搭凉棚	shou	peng	to shade one's eyes with one's hand
手摇柄	shou	bing	hand crank
手摇风琴	shou	qin	hand organ; hurdy-gurdy
手摇饮料	shou	liao	hand-mixed drink (of the kind sold at a bubble tea shop)
手无寸铁	shou	tie	lit. not an inch of steel (idiom); unarmed and defenseless
手无缚鸡之力	shou	li	(lit.) lacking the strength even to truss a chicken (saying); (fig.) weak; unaccustomed to physical work
手术台	shou	tai	operating table
手术室	shou	shi	operating room
手术镊	shou	nie	surgical forceps
手机卡	shou	ka	SIM card
手机壳	shou	ke	cell phone case
手机条码	shou	ma	(Tw) a barcode presented at checkout, used to electronically save the receipt 統一發票|统一发票[tong3 yi1 fa1 piao4] to the customer’s cloud account
手板葫芦	shou	lu	lever pulley block
手榴弹	shou	dan	hand grenade
手牵手	shou	shou	hand in hand
手电筒	shou	tong	flashlight; electric hand torch
手疾眼快	shou	kuai	see 眼疾手快[yan3 ji2 shou3 kuai4]
手眼协调	shou	tiao	hand-eye coordination
手眼通天	shou	tian	(idiom) to be highly influential and well-connected; to have the ability to get things done through one's connections and influence
手续费	shou	fei	service charge; processing fee; commission
手脖子	shou	zi	wrist (dialect)
手脚不干净	shou	jing	thieving; light-fingered; prone to stealing
手腕子	shou	zi	wrist
手腕式	shou	shi	wrist- (watch, compass)
手自一体	shou	ti	manumatic
手舞足蹈	shou	dao	lit. to move one's hands and feet about (idiom); fig. to dance about; to express one's feelings in body language
手足之情	shou	qing	brotherly affection
手足亲情	shou	qing	brotherly kindness
手足口病	shou	bing	hand foot and mouth disease, HFMD, caused by a number of intestinal viruses, usually affecting young children
手足口症	shou	zheng	human hand foot and mouth disease, a viral infection
手足无措	shou	cuo	at a loss to know what to do (idiom); bewildered
手里剑	shou	jian	straight or circular throwing-knife used by ninja and samurai (loanword from Japanese 手裏剣 shuriken)
手风琴	shou	qin	accordion
才兼文武	cai	wu	talent in both military and civil field (idiom)
才华出众	cai	zhong	outstanding talent (idiom); incomparable artistic merit
才华横溢	cai	yi	brimming over with talent (esp. literary); brilliant
才华盖世	cai	shi	peerless talent (idiom); incomparable artistic merit
才子佳人	cai	ren	lit. gifted scholar, beautiful lady (idiom); fig. pair of ideal lovers
才气过人	cai	ren	an outstanding talent (idiom); surpassing insight and acumen
才疏学浅	cai	qian	(humble expr.) of humble talent and shallow learning (idiom); Pray forgive my ignorance,...
才艺秀	cai	xiu	talent show
才识过人	cai	ren	an outstanding talent (idiom); surpassing insight and acumen
才貌双全	cai	quan	talented and good-looking (idiom)
才高八斗	cai	dou	(idiom) of great talent
扎伊尔	zha	er	Zaire, former name of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
扎克伯格	zha	ge	Mark Zuckerberg (1984-), American computer programer, co-founder and CEO of Facebook
扎兰屯	zha	tun	see 扎蘭屯市|扎兰屯市[Zha1 lan2 tun2 Shi4]
扎兰屯市	zha	shi	Zhalantun, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
扎囊县	zha	xian	Zhanang, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
扎尔达里	za	li	Asif Ali Zardari (1956-), Pakistani People's Party politician, widower of murdered Benazir Bhutto, president of Pakistan from 2008-2013
扎扎实实	zha	shi	firm; solid; reliable
扎格罗斯	za	si	Zagros mountains of southwest Iran
扎格罗斯山脉	za	mai	Zagros mountains of southwest Iran
扎猛子	zha	zi	to swim with head submerged
扎线带	za	dai	cable ties; zip ties
扎赉特	zha	te	Jalaid or Zhalaid (name); Jalaid banner, Mongolian Zhalaid khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
扎赉特旗	zha	qi	Jalaid banner, Mongolian Zhalaid khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
扎赉诺尔	zha	er	see 扎賚諾爾區|扎赉诺尔区[Zha1 lai4 nuo4 er3 Qu1]
扎赉诺尔区	zha	qu	Jalainur, a district of Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
扎马剌丁	za	ding	Jamal al-Din ibn Muhammad al-Najjari (13th century), famous Persian astronomer and scholar who served Khubilai Khan 忽必烈 from c. 1260
扎马鲁丁	za	ding	see 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁[Za1 ma3 la2 ding1]
扎鲁特	za	te	Jarud banner or Jarud khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
扎鲁特旗	za	qi	Jarud banner or Jarud khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
扑克牌	pu	pai	poker (card game); playing card; CL:副[fu4]
扑克脸	pu	lian	poker face
扑朔迷离	pu	li	impossible to unravel; confusing
扑热息痛	pu	tong	paracetamol (loanword)
扑脸儿	pu	r	strikes you in the face
扑面而来	pu	lai	lit. sth hits one in the face; directly in one's face; sth assaults the senses
扒头儿	ba	r	handhold (to pull oneself up)
扒屋牵牛	ba	niu	to sack the home and lead off the cattle (proverb); to strip of everything
扒高踩低	pa	di	crawl high, step low (idiom); unprincipled crawling, flattering one's superiors and trampling on one's juniors; toadying and bullying
打一巴掌给个甜枣	da	zao	lit. to give sb a slap, then offer a sweet date (idiom); fig. to deal harshly with sb, then offer sth by way of consolation
打下手	da	shou	to act in a supporting role; fig. to play second fiddle
打不过	da	guo	to be unable to defeat; to be no match for (sb)
打不通	da	tong	cannot get through (on phone)
打交道	da	dao	to come into contact with; to have dealings
打保票	da	piao	to vouch for; to guarantee
打假球	da	qiu	game-fixing; to fix games
打光棍	da	gun	to live as a bachelor
打入冷宫	da	gong	(idiom) to snub; to consign to the trash heap of history
打冲锋	da	feng	to lead the charge
打冷战	da	zhan	to shiver; to shudder
打出手	da	shou	to fling back weapons hurled at one by attackers (acrobatic performance in Chinese opera); to come to blows; to start a fight
打击乐器	da	qi	percussion instrument
打击报复	da	fu	(idiom) to retaliate
打击率	da	lv	batting average (baseball etc)
打分数	da	shu	to grade (a student's work); to rate (sb's performance); to give a score
打制石器	da	qi	(archaeology) chipped stone implement
打前站	da	zhan	to set out in advance to make arrangements (board, lodging etc); (military) to dispatch an advance party
打勾勾	da	gou	see 拉鉤|拉钩[la1 gou1]
打包票	da	piao	to vouch for; to guarantee
打印头	da	tou	print head
打印机	da	ji	printer
打印稿	da	gao	printout; hard copy
打发时间	da	jian	to pass the time
打吊瓶	da	ping	to put sb on an intravenous drip
打吊针	da	zhen	to put sb on an intravenous drip
打呵欠	da	qian	to yawn
打呼噜	da	lu	to snore
打哆嗦	da	suo	to tremble; to shiver (of cold); to shudder
打哈哈	da	ha	to joke; to laugh insincerely; to make merry
打哈哈儿	da	r	erhua variant of 打哈哈[da3 ha1 ha5]
打哈欠	da	qian	to yawn
打响名号	da	hao	to become well-known
打响指	da	zhi	to snap one's fingers
打响鼻儿	da	r	(of a horse etc) to snort
打哑语	da	yu	to use sign language
打哑谜	da	mi	to talk in riddles
打哪儿指哪儿	da	r	(coll.) to act first and then claim the outcome was intended; to act without a clear aim and justify it afterward (ironic reversal of 指哪兒打哪兒|指哪儿打哪儿[zhi3 na3 r5 da3 na3 r5], where one aims clearly and executes with precision)
打喷嚏	da	ti	to sneeze
打嗝儿	da	r	erhua variant of 打嗝[da3 ge2]
打嘴巴	da	ba	to slap
打嚏喷	da	pen	to sneeze
打圆场	da	chang	to help to resolve a dispute; to smooth things over
打地铺	da	pu	to make one's bed on the floor
打地鼠	da	shu	Whac-A-Mole (game)
打坐坡	da	po	(of a horse, dog etc) to sit back on one's haunches and refuse to be coaxed forward; (of a person) to brace oneself to resist being made to go forward; (fig.) to dig one's heels in
打埋伏	da	fu	to lie in wait; to ambush; to conceal sth
打天下	da	xia	to seize power; to conquer the world; to establish and expand a business
打太极	da	ji	to practice tai chi; (fig.) to avoid responsibility; to pass the buck
打头阵	da	zhen	to take the lead
打孔卡	da	ka	(computing) punch card
打孔器	da	qi	hole puncher
打孔钻	da	zuan	auger; drill
打字员	da	yuan	typist
打字机	da	ji	typewriter
打官司	da	si	to file a lawsuit; to sue; to dispute
打官腔	da	qiang	to talk officiously; to assume the air of a functionary; to talk in official jargon
打官话	da	hua	to talk officiously; to assume the air of a functionary; to talk in official jargon
打定主意	da	yi	to make up one's mind
打家劫舍	da	she	to break into a house for robbery (idiom)
打富济贫	da	pin	to rob the rich to help the poor (idiom)
打对仗	da	zhang	to compete
打对台	da	tai	to compete; to rival
打小报告	da	gao	(coll.) to tattletale; to rat on sb
打小算盘	da	pan	lit. to count on a narrow abacus (idiom); petty and scheming selfishly; concerned with petty interests; selfish and uncaring of the interests of others
打屁股	da	gu	to spank sb's bottom
打层次	da	ci	to get one's hair layered
打工人	da	ren	worker
打工仔	da	zai	young worker; employee; young male worker
打工妹	da	mei	young female worker
打底子	da	zi	to sketch; to draft; to lay the foundation
打底裤	da	ku	leggings
打开天窗说亮话	da	hua	(let's) not mince words; (let's) not beat about the bush
打开话匣子	da	zi	to start talking
打得火热	da	re	(idiom) to be on very good terms with each other; to hit it off with sb; to be passionately in love with each other
打心眼里	da	li	from the bottom of one's heart; heartily; sincerely
打情骂俏	da	qiao	to banter flirtatiously (idiom)
打成一片	da	pian	(idiom) to become as one (with a particular group of people); to mix well; to bond
打成平手	da	shou	to draw (a competition); to fight to a standstill
打手枪	da	qiang	to masturbate
打手语	da	yu	to use sign language
打扑克	da	ke	to play cards; to play poker
打扫卫生	da	sheng	to do the cleaning; to clean up
打扰了	da	le	sorry to interrupt you, but ...; sorry to have bothered you; sorry, I have to go
打把势	da	shi	drill (in sword play); to thrash around; to demonstrate gymnastic skills
打把式	da	shi	variant of 打把勢|打把势[da3 ba3 shi5]
打折扣	da	kou	to give a discount; to be of less value than anticipated
打抛猪	da	zhu	stir-fried pork with basil; pork phat kaphrao
打抱不平	da	ping	(idiom) to aid sb suffering an injustice; to fight for justice
打拍子	da	zi	to beat time
打招呼	da	hu	to greet sb by word or action; to give prior notice
打拱作揖	da	yi	to bow respectfully with clasped hands; to beg humbly
打挺儿	da	r	to arch one's body and fling one's head back
打掉门牙往肚子里咽	da	yan	lit. to swallow one's knocked-out teeth after getting punched in the face (idiom); fig. to endure bullying or insults stoically
打摆子	da	zi	(coll.) to suffer from malaria
打擂台	da	tai	(old) to fight on the leitai; (fig.) to enter a contest
打擦边球	da	qiu	to bend the rules; to skirt around the issue
打旋儿	da	r	erhua variant of 打旋[da3 xuan2]
打杂的	da	de	odd-jobs worker
打来回	da	hui	to make a round trip; a return journey
打格子	da	zi	to draw a rectangular grid (e.g. of farmland); to checker
打档车	da	che	(Tw) manual transmission motorcycle (usually denotes a traditional-style motorcycle, as opposed to a scooter)
打桩机	da	ji	pile driver (machinery)
打棍子	da	zi	to bludgeon; to hit with a big stick
打横炮	da	pao	to butt in; to interfere; to make things difficult
打比方	da	fang	to make an analogy; to illustrate by analogy
打气筒	da	tong	bicycle pump
打水漂	da	piao	to skip stones (on water); (coll.) to squander one's money on a bad investment
打油诗	da	shi	humorous poem; limerick
打游击	da	ji	to wage guerrilla warfare; to fight as a guerrilla; (fig.) (coll.) to live or eat at no fixed place
打游戏	da	xi	to play a game
打火机	da	ji	lighter; cigarette lighter
打火石	da	shi	flint
打点滴	da	di	to put sb on an intravenous drip
打牙祭	da	ji	to have a large and sumptuous meal (traditionally on the 1st and 15th of each month)
打狗欺主	da	zhu	to beat a dog and bully its owner; fig. to humiliate sb indirectly by bullying a subordinate
打狗还得看主人	da	ren	lit. when one beats a dog, one must answer to its master (idiom); fig. before punishing sb, one should consider how that would affect others associated with him
打电动	da	dong	(Tw) to play video games
打电话	da	hua	to make a telephone call
打白条	da	tiao	to write an IOU or promissory note
打盹儿	da	r	erhua variant of 打盹[da3 dun3]
打瞌睡	da	shui	to doze; to nod off
打短儿	da	r	casual labor; to work for a bit
打破砂锅问到底	da	di	to go to the bottom of things (idiom)
打碟师	da	shi	DJ (disc jockey)
打稿子	da	zi	to produce a draft manuscript
打算盘	da	pan	to compute on the abacus; (fig.) to calculate; to plan
打翻身仗	da	zhang	to work hard towards a turnaround; to fight to reverse sth
打耳光	da	guang	to slap on the face; to box sb's ears
打肿脸充胖子	da	zi	lit. to swell one's face up by slapping it to look imposing (idiom); to seek to impress by feigning more than one's abilities
打胶枪	da	qiang	sealant gun; glue gun
打草惊蛇	da	she	lit. beat the grass to scare the snake (idiom); fig. to inadvertently alert an enemy; to punish sb as a warning to others
打落水狗	da	gou	lit. to beat a drowning dog (idiom); fig. to pulverize an (already defeated) enemy; to hit sb when he's down
打薄剪刀	da	dao	thinning scissors
打蛇不死反受其害	da	hai	(proverb) if you deal with a threat but fail to eliminate it, it may come back to harm you
打蛋器	da	qi	egg beater
打谷场	da	chang	threshing floor
打谷机	da	ji	threshing machine
打赤脚	da	jiao	to bare the feet
打赤膊	da	bo	to bare one's chest; bare-chested
打趔趄	da	qie	to trip; to miss a step; to slip
打趸儿	da	r	to buy wholesale
打跟头	da	tou	to turn a somersault; to turn head over heels
打躬作揖	da	yi	to bow respectfully with clasped hands; to beg humbly
打边炉	da	lu	(Cantonese) to eat hot pot; hot pot
打边鼓	da	gu	to echo what sb said; to back sb up from the sidelines (in an argument)
打退堂鼓	da	gu	lit. to beat the return drum (idiom); fig. to give up; to turn tail
打通宵	da	xiao	to spend the whole night
打道回府	da	fu	to go home (in a ceremonial procession); to return home
打酱油	da	you	to buy soy sauce; it's none of my business ("I’m just here to buy some soy sauce")
打野战	da	zhan	see 打野炮[da3 ye3 pao4]
打野炮	da	pao	(slang) to have sex outdoors or in a public place
打铁趁热	da	re	see 趁熱打鐵|趁热打铁[chen4 re4 da3 tie3]
打长工	da	gong	to work as long-term hired hand
打长途	da	tu	to make a long distance call
打闷雷	da	lei	(coll.) to wonder secretly; to make wild conjectures
打雪仗	da	zhang	to have a snowball fight
打顿儿	da	r	erhua variant of 打頓|打顿[da3 dun4]
打飞机	da	ji	(slang) (of a male) to masturbate; to jerk off
打马虎眼	da	yan	to play dumb; to slack off (idiom)
打马赛克	da	ke	to censor an image; to pixelate
打鸡血	da	xue	lit. to inject chicken blood; (coll.) extremely excited or energetic (often used mockingly)
打麻雀运动	da	dong	the Great Sparrow Campaign or the Four Pests Campaign, one of the actions during the Great Leap Forward 大躍進|大跃进[Da4 yue4 jin4] aiming to eliminate four pests: rats, flies, mosquitoes, and sparrows
托儿所	tuo	suo	nursery
托克劳	tuo	lao	Tokelau (territory of New Zealand)
托克托	tuo	tuo	Togtoh county, Mongolian Togtox khoshuu, in Hohhot 呼和浩特[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4], Inner Mongolia; alternative spelling of 脫脫|脱脱[Tuo1 tuo1], Yuan dynasty politician Toktoghan (1314-1355)
托克托县	tuo	xian	Togtoh, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
托克逊	tuo	xun	see 托克遜縣|托克逊县[Tuo1 ke4 xun4 Xian4]
托克逊县	tuo	xian	Toksun, a county in Turpan City 吐魯番市|吐鲁番市[Tu3 lu3 fan1 Shi4], Xinjiang
托利党	tuo	dang	Tory Party
托勒密	tuo	mi	Ptolemy, kings of Egypt after the partition of Alexander the Great's Empire in 305 BC; Ptolemy or Claudius Ptolemaeus (c. 90-c. 168), Alexandrian Greek astronomer, mathematician and geographer, author of the Almagest 天文學大成|天文学大成; see also 托勒玫[Tuo1 le4 mei2]
托勒密王	tuo	wang	Ptolemy, kings of Egypt after the partition of Alexander the Great's Empire in 305 BC
托勒玫	tuo	mei	Ptolemy or Claudius Ptolemaeus (c. 90-c. 168), Alexandrian Greek astronomer, mathematician and geographer, author of the Almagest 天文學大成|天文学大成; see also 托勒密[Tuo1 le4 mi4]
托卡塔	tuo	ta	toccata (music) (loanword)
托卡马克	tuo	ke	(physics) (loanword) tokamak
托塔天王	tuo	wang	the pagoda bearing god
托尔斯泰	tuo	tai	Tolstoy (name); Count Lev Nikolayevich Tolstoy (1828-1910), great Russian novelist, author of War and Peace 戰爭與和平|战争与和平
托尔斯港	tuo	gang	Tórshavn, capital of Faroe Islands
托尔金	tuo	jin	J.R.R. Tolkien (1892-1973), British philologist and author of fantasy fiction such as Lord of the Rings 魔戒
托尼老师	tuo	shi	(neologism) (slang) barber; hairdresser
托拉博拉	tuo	la	Tora Bora, cave complex in the White Mountains of eastern Afghanistan
托拉尔	tuo	er	(loanword) tolar, currency of Slovenia 1991-2007; tolar, silver coin that served as the main currency of Bohemia 1520-1750
托拉斯	tuo	si	trust (commerce) (loanword)
托木尔	tuo	er	Mt Tomur (Russian: Pik Pobeda), the highest peak of Tianshan mountains on the border between Xinjiang and Kyrgyzstan
托木尔峰	tuo	feng	Victory Peak or Jengish Chokusu (7,439 m), the highest peak of Tianshan mountains on the border between Xinjiang and Kyrgyzstan
托洛茨基	tuo	ji	Leon Trotsky (1879–1940), a leader in the Russian Revolution in 1917
托皮卡	tuo	ka	Topeka, capital of Kansas
托盘车	tuo	che	pallet jack
托管班	tuo	ban	after-school program
托罗斯山	tuo	shan	Taurus mountains of south Turkey
托老所	tuo	suo	senior center
托莱多	tuo	duo	Toledo, Spain
托足无门	tuo	men	to be unable to find a place to stay (idiom)
托运行李	tuo	li	luggage that has been checked in (on flight)
托里县	tuo	xian	Toli, a county in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
托里拆利	tuo	li	Evangelista Torricelli (1608-1647), Italian physicist, colleague of Galileo
托钵修会	tuo	hui	mendicant religious order in Catholicism; Franciscan order
托马斯	tuo	si	Thomas (male name)
扛把子	kang	zi	(argot) gang leader; (fig.) king; the best; also pr. [kang2ba4zi5]
扣人心弦	kou	xian	to excite; to thrill; exciting
扣屎盆子	kou	zi	to make a scapegoat of sb; to defame; to slander
扣屎盔子	kou	zi	(northern dialect) lit. to cap in excrement; fig. to discredit with absurd unfounded accusations; to vilify
扣带回	kou	hui	cingulum (anatomy)
扣帽子	kou	zi	to tag sb with unfair label; power word
扣式电池	kou	chi	button cell; watch battery
扣眼儿	kou	r	erhua variant of 釦眼|扣眼[kou4 yan3]
执委会	zhi	hui	executive committee (abbr. for 執行委員會|执行委员会[zhi2 xing2 wei3 yuan2 hui4])
执政党	zhi	dang	ruling party; the party in power
执政官	zhi	guan	consul (of the Roman Republic); magistrate (chief administrator)
执政者	zhi	zhe	ruler
执政能力	zhi	li	governing capacity
执法如山	zhi	shan	to maintain the law as firm as a mountain (idiom); to enforce the law strictly
执牛耳	zhi	er	to be the acknowledged leader (from the custom of a prince holding a plate on which lay the severed ears of a sacrificial bull at an alliance ceremony)
执行人	zhi	ren	executioner (hangman); business executor
执行力	zhi	li	ability to get things done
执行绪	zhi	xu	(Tw) (computing) thread
执行长	zhi	zhang	(Tw) chief executive
执迷不悟	zhi	wu	to obstinately persist in going about things the wrong way (idiom)
执金吾	zhi	wu	(Han dynasty) official in command of an army responsible for maintaining law and order in the capital
扩增实境	kuo	jing	augmented reality (computing)
扩大再生产	kuo	chan	to expand production; to reproduce on an extended scale
扩大化	kuo	hua	to extend the scope; to exaggerate
扩展名	kuo	ming	(file) extension (computing)
扩展坞	kuo	wu	docking station
扩展程序	kuo	xu	(computing) extension (for a software application, esp. web browsers)
扩散周知	kuo	zhi	to let everyone know; spread the word!
扩胸器	kuo	qi	chest expander (exercise equipment)
扩音器	kuo	qi	megaphone; loudspeaker; amplifier
扩音机	kuo	ji	amplifier; loudspeaker; hearing aid
扪心无愧	men	kui	lit. look into one's heart, no shame (idiom); with a clear conscience
扪心自问	men	wen	to ask oneself honestly; to search in one's heart
扫地僧	sao	seng	Sweeper Monk, nameless monk who maintains the library of Shaolin (from Jin Yong's novel "Demigods and Semidevils" 天龍八部|天龙八部[Tian1 long2 Ba1 Bu4]); (fig.) person whose remarkable talents are not well known
扫地机器人	sao	ren	robot vacuum
扫堂腿	sao	tui	(martial arts) floor-sweeping kick (to trip one's opponent)
扫墓节	sao	jie	see 清明節|清明节[Qing1 ming2 jie2]
扫帚星	sao	xing	comet; person who brings bad luck; jinx
扫把星	sao	xing	comet; person who brings bad luck; jinx
扫描仪	sao	yi	scanner (device)
扫描器	sao	qi	scanner
扫码枪	sao	qiang	handheld barcode scanner
扫荡腿	sao	tui	see 掃堂腿|扫堂腿[sao3 tang2 tui3]
扫除天下	sao	xia	(idiom) to re-establish order throughout the empire
扫除机	sao	ji	mechanical sweeper
扫雪车	sao	che	snowplow
扫雷舰	sao	jian	minesweeper
扫雷艇	sao	ting	minesweeper
扫黄打非	sao	fei	to eradicate pornography and illegal publications
扫黄运动	sao	dong	campaign against pornography
扬中市	yang	shi	Yangzhong, a county-level city in Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
扬名四海	yang	hai	known throughout the country (idiom); world-famous
扬声器	yang	qi	speaker
扬子江	yang	jiang	Changjiang 長江|长江 or Yangtze River; old name for Changjiang, especially lower reaches around Yangzhou 揚州|扬州
扬子鳄	yang	e	Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis)
扬州市	yang	shi	Yangzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
扬州炒饭	yang	fan	Yangzhou fried rice, featuring scrambled egg, diced vegetables and multiple proteins – typically shrimp and barbecued pork
扬帆远航	yang	hang	to set sail on a voyage to a distant place; (fig.) to undertake a great mission
扬幡招魂	yang	hun	(lit.) to raise a banner to summon the soul of a dying person (idiom); (fig.) to try to revive what is obsolete or dead
扬抑格	yang	ge	trochaic
扬清激浊	yang	zhuo	see 激濁揚清|激浊扬清[ji1 zhuo2 yang2 qing1]
扬科维奇	yang	qi	Jankovic; Yankovic; Yankovich
扬长而去	yang	qu	to swagger off; to walk off (or drive off etc) without a second thought for those left behind
扬长避短	yang	duan	to foster strengths and avoid weaknesses (idiom); to play to one's strengths
扭亏为盈	niu	ying	(idiom) to get into the black; to become profitable
扭扭乐	niu	le	Twister (game)
扭扭捏捏	niu	nie	affecting shyness or embarrassment; coy; mincing (walk, manner of speech)
扭角羚	niu	ling	takin (Budorcas taxicolor); goat-antelope
扭转乾坤	niu	kun	lit. to upend heaven and earth (idiom); fig. to change the course of events; to turn things around
扮家家酒	ban	jiu	to play house (Tw)
扮猪吃老虎	ban	hu	to play the wolf in sheep's clothing; to disguise oneself as sth harmless in order to lull one's target into letting their guard down
扮装皇后	ban	hou	drag queen; female impersonator
扯后腿	che	tui	to be a drag or hindrance on sb
扯嗓子	che	zi	to raise one's voice; to speak at the top of one's voice
扯家常	che	chang	to engage in small talk; to chit chat
扯犊子	che	zi	(dialect) to talk nonsense; to chat idly
扯皮条	che	tiao	see 拉皮條|拉皮条[la1 pi2 tiao2]
扯鸡巴蛋	che	dan	to talk shit; to drivel; bullshit
扰流板	rao	ban	spoiler (automotive or aeronautical)
扳不倒儿	ban	r	(dialect) roly-poly toy
扳回一城	ban	cheng	to recover some lost ground (in a competition)
扳指儿	ban	r	erhua variant of 扳指[ban1 zhi3]
扳本儿	ban	r	to recoup losses (in gambling)
扳道员	ban	yuan	pointsman; switchman
扳道岔	ban	cha	railroad switch
扳龙附凤	ban	feng	hitching a ride to the sky on the dragon and phoenix (idiom); fig. currying favor with the rich and powerful in the hope of advancement
扶不起的阿斗	fu	dou	weak and inept person; hopeless case
扶他林	fu	lin	voltaren, a trade name for diclofenac sodium, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller
扶余市	fu	shi	Fuyu, a county-level city in Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
扶危济困	fu	kun	to help those in distress (idiom)
扶困济危	fu	wei	see 濟危扶困|济危扶困[ji4 wei1 fu2 kun4]
扶弟魔	fu	mo	(coll.) (neologism c. 2017, a play on 伏地魔[Fu2 di4 mo2]) woman who devotes herself to supporting her little brother (assisting him with his studies, giving money to help him buy a house etc)
扶弱抑强	fu	qiang	to support the weak and restrain the strong (idiom); robbing the rich to help the poor
扶手椅	fu	yi	armchair
扶摇直上	fu	shang	to skyrocket; to get quick promotion in one's career
扶正压邪	fu	xie	to uphold good and suppress evil (idiom)
扶沟县	fu	xian	Fugou, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
扶清灭洋	fu	yang	Support the Qing, annihilate the West! (Boxer rebellion slogan)
扶绥县	fu	xian	Fusui, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
扶老携幼	fu	you	taking everyone along, young and old; to look after the elderly and the young
扶贫济困	fu	kun	to help the poor; almsgiving for the needy; to assist poor households or poor regions
扶轮社	fu	she	Rotary Club
扶风县	fu	xian	Fufeng, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
批八字	pi	zi	to have one's fortune read; system of fortune telling based on a person's date and time of birth, according to 干支 (sexagenary cycle)
批准文号	pi	hao	(drug etc) approval number
批发业	pi	ye	wholesale business; bulk trade
批发价	pi	jia	wholesale price
批发商	pi	shang	a wholesale business; distributor
批哩啪啦	pi	la	variant of 噼里啪啦[pi1 li5 pa1 la1]
批处理	pi	li	(computing) batch processing
批斗大会	pi	hui	struggle session
批流年	pi	nian	to cast sb's yearly horoscope
批评家	pi	jia	critic
批评者	pi	zhe	critic; detractor
批踢踢	pi	ti	PTT, the largest terminal-based bulletin board system in Taiwan; full name: 批踢踢實業坊|批踢踢实业坊[Pi1 ti1 ti1 Shi2 ye4 Fang1]
批踢踢实业坊	pi	fang	PTT Bulletin Board System (Tw)
批郤导窾	pi	kuan	to get right to the heart of the matter (idiom)
批量生产	pi	chan	to mass produce
批量购买	pi	mai	to buy in bulk; bulk buying
扼喉抚背	e	bei	lit. to strangle the front and press the back (idiom); fig. to occupy all key points (military)
扼襟控咽	e	yan	to secure a stranglehold (idiom); fig. to hold a strategic pass
找上门	zhao	men	to come to sb's door; to call on sb
找不到	zhao	dao	can't find
找不着	zhao	zhao	to be unable to find
找不着北	zhao	bei	to be confused and disoriented
找不自在	zhao	zai	to ask for trouble; to bring misfortune on oneself
找借口	zhao	kou	to look for a pretext
找刺儿	zhao	r	to find fault
找台阶儿	zhao	r	to find an excuse; to look for a pretext
找对象	zhao	xiang	to seek a marriage partner; looking for a mate
找岔子	zhao	zi	to look for blemishes; to find fault; nitpicking
找机会	zhao	hui	to look for an opportunity
找碴儿	zhao	r	to pick a quarrel; to find fault; nitpicking
找门路	zhao	lu	to seek help from social connections
找饭碗	zhao	wan	to look for a job
找麻烦	zhao	fan	to look for trouble
承上起下	cheng	xia	to follow the past and herald the future (idiom); part of a historical transition; forming a bridge between earlier and later stages
承先启后	cheng	hou	see 承前啟後|承前启后[cheng2 qian2 qi3 hou4]
承前启后	cheng	hou	to follow the past and herald the future (idiom); part of a historical transition; forming a bridge between earlier and later stages
承包人	cheng	ren	contractor
承包商	cheng	shang	contractor
承受力	cheng	li	tolerance; capability of adapting oneself
承审法官	cheng	guan	trial judge
承德县	cheng	xian	Chengde, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
承德市	cheng	shi	Chengde, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
承租人	cheng	ren	leaser; tenant
承租方	cheng	fang	borrower; leaser; the hiring side of a contract
承蒙关照	cheng	zhao	to be indebted to sb for care; thank you for looking after me
承认控罪	cheng	zui	guilty plea (law)
承让人	cheng	ren	grantee (law)
承载力	cheng	li	carrying capacity
承载量	cheng	liang	carrying capacity
承运人	cheng	ren	carrier (of goods etc)
承重墙	cheng	qiang	load-bearing wall
承重孙	cheng	sun	eldest grandson (to sustain upper storeys of ancestor worship)
承销人	cheng	ren	sales agent; salesman; consignee
承销价差	cheng	cha	underwriting spread
承销利差	cheng	cha	underwriting spread
承销品	cheng	pin	goods on consignment
承销商	cheng	shang	underwriting company; dealership; sales agency
承销团	cheng	tuan	underwriting group
承销店	cheng	dian	dealership
承销货物	cheng	wu	goods on consignment
技工学校	ji	xiao	vocational high school
技战术	ji	shu	skillful execution and strategic planning; technical and tactical skills (abbr. for 技術|技术[ji4 shu4] + 戰術|战术[zhan4 shu4])
技术人员	ji	yuan	technical staff
技术员	ji	yuan	technician; CL:個|个[ge4]
技术学校	ji	xiao	vocational high school
技术官僚	ji	liao	technocrat
技术性	ji	xing	technical; technological
技术指导	ji	dao	technical instructor; coach
技术援助	ji	zhu	technical assistance
技术故障	ji	zhang	technical breakdown; malfunction
技术方案	ji	an	technology program; technical solution
技术标准	ji	zhun	technology standard
技术栈	ji	zhan	technology stack
技术潜水	ji	shui	technical diving
技术知识	ji	shi	technical knowledge
技术规范	ji	fan	technical specification
抄后路	chao	lu	to outflank and attack from the rear
抄小路	chao	lu	to take the back roads; to take the side streets; to take the small paths
抄经士	chao	shi	copyist; scribe
抄近儿	chao	r	erhua variant of 抄近[chao1 jin4]
抄近路	chao	lu	to take a shortcut
抄靶子	chao	zi	(dialect) to do a body search; to frisk
把兄弟	ba	di	sworn brothers
把心放在肚子里	ba	li	(coll.) to be completely at ease
把持不定	ba	ding	indecisive (idiom)
把方便当随便	ba	bian	to act unappreciatively in response to a kindness
把酒言欢	ba	huan	to drink together and chat merrily
把马子	ba	zi	to pick up a girl; to get a girl
抑制作用	yi	yong	inhibition
抑制剂	yi	ji	suppressant; inhibitor
抑扬格	yi	ge	iambic
抑扬顿挫	yi	cuo	see 頓挫抑揚|顿挫抑扬[dun4 cuo4 yi4 yang2]
抑郁不平	yi	ping	in a state of depression (idiom)
抑郁症	yi	zheng	clinical depression
抒情诗	shu	shi	lyric poetry
抓功夫	zhua	fu	to maximize one's time; to catch some time out; to find enough time
抓地力	zhua	li	traction
抓大放小	zhua	xiao	(PRC, mid-1990s) to restructure the large state-owned enterprises (SOEs) controlled by the central government and privatize smaller SOEs at the local level
抓娃娃机	zhua	ji	claw machine
抓子儿	zhua	r	kids' game involving throwing and grabbing
抓小辫子	zhua	zi	to catch sb out
抓工夫	zhua	fu	to maximize one's time; to catch some time out; to find enough time
抓紧学习	zhua	xi	to concentrate on studying hard
抓紧时间	zhua	jian	to waste no time in (doing sth); to hurry up
抓耳挠腮	zhua	sai	to tweak one's ears and scratch one's cheeks (as an expression of anxiety, delight, frustration etc) (idiom)
抓辫子	zhua	zi	to grab sb by the pigtail; to seize on weak points; to exploit the opponent's shortcomings
投井下石	tou	shi	see 落井下石[luo4 jing3 xia4 shi2]
投保人	tou	ren	policy holder; insured person
投保方	tou	fang	policyholder (insurance)
投光灯	tou	deng	floodlight
投其所好	tou	hao	to adapt to sb's taste; to fit sb's fancy
投币口	tou	kou	coin slot
投开票所	tou	suo	polling station; CL:處|处[chu4]
投影中心	tou	xin	center of projection
投影仪	tou	yi	projector
投影几何	tou	he	(Tw) projective geometry
投影图	tou	tu	perspective drawing
投影机	tou	ji	projector
投影片	tou	pian	slide used in a presentation (Tw)
投影线	tou	xian	line of project; projection line
投影面	tou	mian	plane of projection (in perspective drawing)
投怀送抱	tou	bao	to throw oneself in sb's arms; to throw oneself at sb
投放市场	tou	chang	to put sth on the market
投机买卖	tou	mai	to engage in speculative trading
投机倒把	tou	ba	to engage in speculation and profiteering
投机取巧	tou	qiao	to gain advantage by any means, fair or foul; to be opportunistic; to be full of tricks
投机者	tou	zhe	speculator
投桃报李	tou	li	toss a peach, get back a plum (idiom); to return a favor; to exchange gifts; Scratch my back, and I'll scratch yours.
投石问路	tou	lu	lit. to toss a stone to find out what's ahead (idiom); fig. to test the waters
投硬币	tou	bi	coin-operated; to insert a coin
投票匦	tou	gui	ballot box (Tw)
投票地点	tou	dian	voting place
投票机器	tou	qi	voting machine
投票权	tou	quan	suffrage; right to vote
投票率	tou	lv	proportion of vote; turnout in election
投票站	tou	zhan	polling station (for a vote)
投票箱	tou	xiang	ballot box
投票者	tou	zhe	voter
投票间	tou	jian	voting booth
投笔从戎	tou	rong	to lay down the pen and take up the sword (idiom); to join the military (esp. of educated person)
投篮机	tou	ji	arcade basketball machine; miniature hoops
投缳自缢	tou	yi	to hang oneself (idiom)
投袂而起	tou	qi	lit. to shake one's sleeves and rise (idiom); fig. to get excited and move to action
投资人	tou	ren	investor
投资回报率	tou	lv	return on investment (ROI)
投资家	tou	jia	investor
投资报酬率	tou	lv	return on investment; rate of return
投资移民	tou	min	investment immigration; immigrant investor
投资组合	tou	he	investment portfolio
投资者	tou	zhe	investor
投资银行	tou	hang	investment bank
投递员	tou	yuan	courier; mailman
投错胎	tou	tai	to be reincarnated in the wrong womb; (fig.) to be born into unfortunate circumstances (impoverished family, domestic violence etc)
投鞭断流	tou	liu	arms enough to stem the stream (idiom); formidable army
投鼠忌器	tou	qi	lit. to refrain from shooting at the rat for fear of breaking the vases (idiom); to not act against an evil so as to prevent harm to innocents
抖擞精神	dou	shen	to gather one's spirits; to pull oneself together
抗倾覆	kang	fu	anticapsizing
抗凝血剂	kang	ji	anticoagulant
抗利尿激素	kang	su	vasopressin (biochemistry)
抗原决定簇	kang	cu	(immunology) antigenic determinant; epitope
抗坏血酸	kang	suan	vitamin C; ascorbic acid
抗忧郁药	kang	yao	antidepressant
抗抑郁药	kang	yao	antidepressant
抗抗生素	kang	su	antibiotic resistance
抗日战争	kang	zheng	(China's) War of Resistance against Japan (1937-1945)
抗日救亡运动	kang	dong	the Save the Nation Anti-Japanese Protest Movement stemming from the Manchurian railway incident of 18th July 1931 九一八事變|九一八事变
抗核加固	kang	gu	nuclear hardening
抗毒素	kang	su	antitoxins
抗氧化剂	kang	ji	antioxidant
抗炎性	kang	xing	anti-inflammatory (medicine)
抗生素	kang	su	antibiotic
抗病毒	kang	du	antiviral
抗病毒药	kang	yao	antivirals
抗精神病	kang	bing	antipsychotic (drug)
抗组织胺	kang	an	antihistamine
抗组胺剂	kang	ji	antihistamine
抗组胺药	kang	yao	antihistamine
抗美援朝	kang	chao	Resist US, help North Korea (1950s slogan)
抗耐甲氧西林金葡菌	kang	jun	methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)
抗药性	kang	xing	drug resistance (medicine)
抗药能力	kang	li	drug-resistance (of a pathogen)
抗菌素	kang	su	antibiotic
抗菌药	kang	yao	antibacterial
抗血清	kang	qing	antiserum
抗议者	kang	zhe	protester
抗锯齿	kang	chi	anti-aliasing
抗震救灾指挥部	kang	bu	State Council Earthquake Relief Headquarters
抗震结构	kang	gou	earthquake-resistant construction
折冲樽俎	zhe	zu	lit. to stop the enemy at the banquet table; fig. to get the better of an enemy during diplomatic functions
折刀儿	zhe	r	erhua form of 折刀[zhe2 dao1]
折反射望远镜	zhe	jing	catadioptric telescope
折叠刀	zhe	dao	folding knife
折叠屏	zhe	ping	foldable screen (for a smartphone etc)
折叠式	zhe	shi	folding (i.e. portable)
折叠椅	zhe	yi	folding chair; deck chair
折子戏	zhe	xi	opera highlights performed as independent pieces
折射望远镜	zhe	jing	refracting telescope
折射率	zhe	lv	refractive index
折戟沉沙	zhe	sha	lit. broken halberds embedded in the sand (idiom); fig. reminder of a fierce battle; remnants of a disastrous defeat
折旧率	zhe	lv	rate of deprecation
折现率	zhe	lv	discount rate
折线图	zhe	tu	line chart
折耳根	zhe	gen	chameleon plant; fish mint (Houttuynia cordata), esp. its edible rhizome
折节读书	zhe	shu	to start reading furiously, contrary to previous habit (idiom)
折衷主义	zhe	yi	eclecticism
折衷鹦鹉	zhe	wu	Eclectus roratus (red-green parrot of Papua-New Guinea)
折跟头	zhe	tou	to do a somersault; to turn head over heels
折过儿	zhe	r	to turn over
折返跑	zhe	pao	shuttle run
抚养成人	fu	ren	to bring up (a child)
抚养权	fu	quan	custody (of a child etc)
抚养费	fu	fei	child support payment (after a divorce)
抚宁区	fu	qu	Funing, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
抚州市	fu	shi	Fuzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
抚恤金	fu	jin	compensation payment (for injury); relief payment
抚慰金	fu	jin	pension or lump-sum payment for the injured or for the family of the deceased
抚松县	fu	xian	Fusong, a county in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
抚远三角洲	fu	zhou	Bolshoi Ussuriisk Island in the Heilongjiang or Amur river, at mouth of the Ussuri River opposite Khabarovsk; same as Heixiazi Island 黑瞎子島|黑瞎子岛[Hei1 xia1 zi5 Dao3]
抚远市	fu	shi	Fuyuan, a county-level city in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
抚顺县	fu	xian	Fushun, a county in Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
抚顺市	fu	shi	Fushun, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
抛夫弃子	pao	zi	to abandon one's husband and child(ren)
抛头露面	pao	mian	to put oneself out in the public eye (said of sb for whom doing so is deemed unseemly)
抛妻弃子	pao	zi	to abandon one's wife and child(ren)
抛媚眼	pao	yan	to throw amorous or flirtatious glances at sb (esp. of a woman)
抛家弃子	pao	zi	(of a parent) to abandon one's family
抛射体	pao	ti	projectile
抛射物	pao	wu	projectile
抛物线	pao	xian	parabola
抛物面	pao	mian	(geometry) paraboloid
抛生藕	pao	ou	(Cantonese) (of a woman) to direct a coquettish look, comment or gesture at a guy
抛砖引玉	pao	yu	lit. throw out a brick and get jade thrown back (idiom); fig. to attract others' interest or suggestions by putting forward one's own modest ideas to get the ball rolling
抛绣球	pao	qiu	throwing the embroidered ball (traditional Zhuang flirting game at festivals); (fig.) to make overtures; to court
抛补套利	pao	li	covered arbitrage
抠字眼	kou	yan	to be fastidious about phrasing, diction, or choice of words
抠字眼儿	kou	r	erhua variant of 摳字眼|抠字眼[kou1 zi4 yan3]
抠抠搜搜	kou	sou	see 摳搜|抠搜[kou1 sou5]
抠门儿	kou	r	erhua form of 摳門|抠门[kou1 men2]
抢劫案	qiang	an	robbery; holdup
抢劫罪	qiang	zui	robbery
抢手货	qiang	huo	a best-seller; a hot property
抢生意	qiang	yi	to undercut competitors; to hustle; to compete for business
抢答器	qiang	qi	lockout buzzer system (as used by game show contestants)
抢镜头	qiang	tou	(of a photographer etc) to capture the best shots; to steal the spotlight; to grab the limelight
抢险救灾	qiang	zai	to provide relief during times of emergency and disaster (idiom)
抢风头	qiang	tou	to steal the show; to grab the limelight
抢风航行	qiang	xing	to tack against the wind (sailing)
护卫舰	hu	jian	escort vessel; frigate; corvette
护卫艇	hu	ting	escort vessel; corvette
护发乳	hu	ru	hair conditioner
护发素	hu	su	hair conditioner
护国军	hu	jun	National Protection Army of 1915 (in rebellion against Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3])
护国战争	hu	zheng	National Protection War or Campaign to Defend the Republic (1915), a rebellion against the installation of Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] as emperor
护国运动	hu	dong	Campaign to Defend the Republic (1915) or National Protection War, a rebellion against the installation of Yuan Shikai 袁世凱|袁世凯[Yuan2 Shi4 kai3] as emperor
护城河	hu	he	moat (surrounding the city wall); (fig.) (business) competitive advantage
护士站	hu	zhan	nurses' station (in a hospital or clinic)
护孔环	hu	huan	(Tw) grommet
护手盘	hu	pan	hand guard (e.g. on saber)
护手霜	hu	shuang	hand cream; hand lotion
护林员	hu	yuan	forest ranger
护法战争	hu	zheng	National protection war or Campaign to defend the republic (1915), a rebellion against the installation of Yuan Shikai as emperor
护法神	hu	shen	protector deities of Buddhist law
护犊子	hu	zi	(of a woman) to be fiercely protective of one's children
护理学	hu	xue	nursing
护理师	hu	shi	nurse
护目镜	hu	jing	goggles; protective glasses
护老者	hu	zhe	carer of elderly persons; aged care worker
护航舰	hu	jian	escort vessel
护贝机	hu	ji	laminating machine; laminator
护贝胶膜	hu	mo	(Tw) laminating film; laminating pouch
护贝膜	hu	mo	see 護貝膠膜|护贝胶膜[hu4 bei4 jiao1 mo2]
护身符	hu	fu	amulet; protective talisman; charm
护身符子	hu	zi	amulet; protective talisman; charm
护颈套	hu	tao	cervical collar
报仇雪恨	bao	hen	to take revenge and wipe out a grudge (idiom)
报仇雪耻	bao	chi	to take revenge and erase humiliation (idiom)
报价单	bao	dan	quotation; price list; written estimate of price
报关员	bao	yuan	customs broker
报刊亭	bao	ting	newsstand
报刊摊	bao	tan	newsstand
报务员	bao	yuan	telegraph operator; radio operator
报名表	bao	biao	application form; registration form; CL:張|张[zhang1]
报名费	bao	fei	registration fee
报告书	bao	shu	written report
报告会	bao	hui	public lecture (with guest speakers etc)
报告员	bao	yuan	spokesperson; announcer
报告文学	bao	xue	reportage
报喜不报忧	bao	you	to report only the good news, not the bad news; to hold back unpleasant news; to sweep bad news under the carpet
报复心	bao	xin	vindictiveness
报复性	bao	xing	retaliatory
报应不爽	bao	shuang	divine retribution is unfailing (idiom); one is inevitably punished for one's misdeeds
报录人	bao	ren	bearer of good news (esp. announcing success in imperial examinations)
报户口	bao	kou	to apply for residence; to register a birth
报料人	bao	ren	informant; news source
报春花	bao	hua	primrose (Primula malacoides)
报本反始	bao	shi	ensure that you pay debts of gratitude (idiom)
报税单	bao	dan	to declare to customs or to the taxman
报税表	bao	biao	a tax return; a tax declaration form
报纸报导	bao	dao	newspaper report
报警器	bao	qi	alarm (e.g. burglar or fire alarm); warning device
报话机	bao	ji	walkie-talkie; portable radio transmitter
报道摄影师	bao	shi	photojournalist
披头四乐团	pi	tuan	the Beatles
披头士	pi	shi	the Beatles (music band)
披头散发	pi	fa	with dishevelled hair (idiom); with one's hair down
披星带月	pi	yue	variant of 披星戴月[pi1 xing1 dai4 yue4]
披星戴月	pi	yue	to travel or work through night and day; to toil away for long hours
披沙拣金	pi	jin	(lit.) to sort the gold from the sand (idiom); (fig.) to separate the wheat from the chaff
披肝沥胆	pi	dan	(idiom) to be completely honest and sincere; to show wholehearted loyalty
披荆斩棘	pi	ji	lit. to cut one's way through thistles and thorns (idiom); fig. to overcome all obstacles on the way; to break through hardships
披麻带孝	pi	xiao	variant of 披麻戴孝[pi1 ma2 dai4 xiao4]
披麻戴孝	pi	xiao	to wear mourning clothes; to be in mourning; also written 披麻帶孝|披麻带孝
抬头不见低头见	tai	jian	(idiom) (of people in a small town etc) to cross paths regularly
抬轿子	tai	zi	to carry sb in a sedan chair; flatter; sing praises
抱不平	bao	ping	to be outraged by an injustice (done to sb else)
抱佛脚	bao	jiao	(fig.) to scramble to make up for a lack of preparation; to make a frantic, last-ditch effort; to cram for an exam (cf. 平時不燒香，臨時抱佛腳|平时不烧香，临时抱佛脚[ping2 shi2 bu4 shao1 xiang1 , lin2 shi2 bao4 fo2 jiao3])
抱大腿	bao	tui	(coll.) to cling to sb influential or famous
抱头痛哭	bao	ku	to weep disconsolately; to cry on each other's shoulder
抱头鼠窜	bao	cuan	to cover one's head and sneak away like a rat (idiom); to flee ignominiously
抱恨终天	bao	tian	(idiom) to harbor regrets for a lifetime
抱恨黄泉	bao	quan	(idiom) to harbor regrets into the afterlife
抱成一团	bao	tuan	to band together; to gang up; to stick together
抱打不平	bao	ping	see 打抱不平[da3 bao4 bu4 ping2]
抱抱团	bao	tuan	Free Hugs Campaign
抱抱装	bao	zhuang	"hug shirt" worn by members of the Free Hugs Campaign (see 抱抱團|抱抱团[bao4 bao4 tuan2])
抱朴子	bao	zi	Baopuzi, collection of essays by Ge Hong 葛洪[Ge3 Hong2] on alchemy, immortality, legalism, society etc
抱残守缺	bao	que	to cherish the outmoded and preserve the outworn (idiom); conservative; stickler for tradition
抱犊崮	bao	gu	Mt Baodugu in Lanling County 蘭陵縣|兰陵县[Lan2 ling2 Xian4] in Linyi 臨沂|临沂[Lin2 yi2], south Shandong
抱粗腿	bao	tui	to latch on to the rich and powerful
抱薪救火	bao	huo	lit. to carry firewood to put out a fire (idiom); fig. to make a problem worse by inappropriate action
抵抗力	di	li	resistance; immunity
抵押品	di	pin	security (property held against a loan); mortgaged property
抵押物	di	wu	collateral (finance)
抵押贷款	di	kuan	mortgage loan
抵用券	di	quan	coupon; voucher
抵用金	di	jin	store credit (credit to be spent at a specified retailer)
抵足而卧	di	wo	see 抵足而眠[di3 zu2 er2 mian2]
抵足而眠	di	mian	lit. to live and sleep together (idiom); fig. a close friendship
抹一鼻子灰	mo	hui	lit. to rub one's nose with dust; to suffer a snub; to meet with a rebuff
抹不下脸	mo	lian	to be unable to keep a straight face (idiom)
抹稀泥	mo	ni	see 和稀泥[huo4 xi1 ni2]
抹脖子	mo	zi	to slit one's own throat; to commit suicide
抹香鲸	mo	jing	sperm whale; cachalot (Physeter macrocephalus)
押平声韵	ya	yun	to restrict to even tone (i.e. final rhyming syllable must be classical first or second tone 平聲|平声)
押沙龙	ya	long	Absalom, third son of David, king of Israel (Old Testament)
押运员	ya	yuan	supercargo (in maritime law); agent responsible for goods; an escort
抽丝剥茧	chou	jian	(lit.) to unwind the silk thread from the cocoon (idiom); (fig.) to unravel a mystery; to painstakingly follow the clues to eventually get to the bottom of the matter
抽冷子	chou	zi	(coll.) unexpectedly
抽动症	chou	zheng	Tourette syndrome
抽嘴巴	chou	ba	to slap
抽抽噎噎	chou	ye	(idiom) to sob and sniffle
抽时间	chou	jian	to (try to) find the time to
抽水机	chou	ji	water pump
抽水泵	chou	beng	water pump
抽水站	chou	zhan	water pumping station
抽水马桶	chou	tong	flush toilet
抽油烟机	chou	ji	range hood; kitchen exhaust hood
抽认卡	chou	ka	flashcard
抽象代数	chou	shu	abstract algebra
抽象域	chou	yu	abstract field (math.)
抽象思维	chou	wei	abstract thought; logical thinking
抽象词	chou	ci	abstract word
抽风机	chou	ji	exhaust fan
拂袖而去	fu	qu	to storm off in a huff (idiom)
担仔面	dan	mian	ta-a noodles or danzai noodles, popular snack originating from Tainan
担惊受怕	dan	pa	(idiom) apprehensive; alarmed; anxious
担担面	dan	mian	Sichuan noodles with a spicy and numbing sauce
担架兵	dan	bing	stretcher bearer (military)
担架床	dan	chuang	stretcher
担架抬	dan	tai	stretcher (for the injured)
拆东墙补西墙	chai	qiang	(lit.) to tear down the east wall to repair the west wall (saying); (fig.) to rob Peter to pay Paul
拆东补西	chai	xi	lit. pull down the east wall to repair the west (idiom); fig. temporary expedient; Rob Peter to pay Paul
拆放款	chai	kuan	funds on call; invested sum that can be cashed
拆鱼羹	chai	geng	hand-shredded fish soup, a speciality of Shunde 順德|顺德[Shun4 de2]
拇囊炎	mu	yan	bunion; hallux valgus
拇外翻	mu	fan	bunion; hallux valgus
拇指甲	mu	jia	thumbnail
拇趾外翻	mu	fan	bunion; hallux valgus
拈花惹草	nian	cao	lit. to pick the flowers and trample the grass (idiom); fig. to womanize; to frequent brothels
拉丁化	la	hua	romanization
拉丁字母	la	mu	Latin alphabet
拉丁文	la	wen	Latin (language)
拉丁文字	la	zi	the alphabet; latin letters
拉丁方块	la	kuai	Latin square (math. puzzle)
拉丁美洲	la	zhou	Latin America
拉丁舞	la	wu	Latin dance
拉丁语	la	yu	Latin (language)
拉下脸	la	lian	to look displeased; to not be afraid of hurting sb's feelings; to put aside one's pride
拉不出屎来怨茅房	la	fang	lit. to blame the toilet because one is having difficulty completing a bowel movement (idiom); fig. to blame others for problems caused by one's own shortcomings
拉丝模	la	mo	die (i.e. tool for cutting wire to a given diameter)
拉交情	la	qing	to try to form friendly ties with sb for one's own benefit; to suck up to sb
拉什卡尔加	la	jia	Lashkar Gah, capital of Helmand province in south Afghanistan
拉什莫尔山	la	shan	Mt Rushmore National Memorial, South Dakota
拉仇恨	la	hen	(gaming) to draw attention or attacks from the enemy towards oneself; (slang) (neologism) to court envy and resentment by flaunting one's wealth, travel photos or weight loss etc
拉伸强度	la	du	tensile strength
拉克替醇	la	chun	lactitol, a sugar alcohol
拉关系	la	xi	to seek contact with sb for one's own benefit; to suck up to sb
拉兹莫夫斯基	la	ji	Razumovsky (name); Prince Andrey Kirillovich Razumovsky (1752-1836), Russian diplomat
拉力器	la	qi	chest expander (exercise equipment)
拉力赛	la	sai	rally (car race) (loanword)
拉勾儿	la	r	erhua form of 拉勾[la1 gou1]
拉包尔	la	er	Rabaul, port city and capital of New Britain, island of northeast Papua New Guinea
拉匝禄	la	lu	Lazarus (Catholic transliteration)
拉卜楞寺	la	si	Labrang Monastery, Tibetan: bLa-brang bkra-shis-'khyil, in Xiahe county 夏河縣|夏河县[Xia4 he2 Xian4], Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, Gansu, formerly Amdo province of Tibet
拉各斯	la	si	Lagos, city in Nigeria
拉合尔	la	er	Lahore (city in Pakistan)
拉后钩儿	la	r	(dialect) to leave unfinished business
拉场子	la	zi	(of a performer) to put on a show at an outdoor venue (temple fair, marketplace etc); (fig.) to enhance sb's reputation; to make a name for oneself
拉大便	la	bian	to poop; to defecate
拉大旗作虎皮	la	pi	lit. to wave a banner as if it were a tiger skin (idiom); fig. to borrow sb's prestige; to take the name of a great cause as a shield
拉大条	la	tiao	to defecate (slang)
拉夫堡	la	bao	Loughborough, English city
拉夫堡大学	la	xue	Loughborough University
拉夫桑贾尼	la	ni	Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani
拉夫罗夫	la	fu	Lavrov (name); Sergey Viktorovich Lavrov (1950-), Russian diplomat and politician, Foreign minister from 2004
拉奎拉	la	la	L'Aquila, Italy
拉姆安拉	la	la	Ramallah
拉孜县	la	xian	Lhatse, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
拉家带口	la	kou	see 拖家帶口|拖家带口[tuo1 jia1 dai4 kou3]
拉家常	la	chang	to talk or chat about ordinary daily life
拉尔夫	la	fu	Ralph (name)
拉尔维克	la	ke	Larvik (city in Vestfold, Norway)
拉尼娅	la	ya	Rania (name)
拉尼娜	la	na	La Niña, equatorial climatic variation over the Eastern Pacific, as opposed to El Niño 厄爾尼諾|厄尔尼诺
拉山头	la	tou	to start a clique; to form a faction
拉巴斯	la	si	La Paz, administrative capital of Bolivia
拉巴特	la	te	Rabat, capital of Morocco
拉布布	la	bu	Labubu, an elf-like toy character created by Hong Kong artist Kasing Lung
拉布拉多	la	duo	Labrador, Canada; Labrador (a breed of dog)
拉帕斯	la	si	La Paz, administrative capital of Bolivia, usually written as 拉巴斯
拉开序幕	la	mu	(fig.) to raise the curtain; to lift the curtain; to be a curtain raiser for
拉开架势	la	shi	to assume a fighting stance; (fig.) to take the offensive
拉扯大	la	da	(coll.) to bring up; to rear; to raise
拉拉扯扯	la	che	to tug at; to pull at sb aggressively; to take sb's hand or arm in a too familiar way
拉拉蛄	la	gu	variant of 蝲蝲蛄[la4 la4 gu3]
拉拉队	la	dui	variant of 啦啦隊|啦啦队[la1 la1 dui4]
拉撒路	la	lu	Lazarus (Protestant transliteration)
拉文克劳	la	lao	Ravenclaw (Harry Potter)
拉文纳	la	na	Ravenna on the Adriatic coast of Italy
拉斐尔	la	er	Raphael
拉斐特	la	te	Lafayette
拉斯帕尔马斯	la	si	Las Palmas, Spain
拉斯穆森	la	sen	Rasmussen (name)
拉斯维加斯	la	si	Las Vegas, Nevada
拉普兰	la	lan	Lapland (northern Europe)
拉普拉斯	la	si	Pierre Simon Laplace (1749-1827), French mathematician
拉杆箱	la	xiang	rolling suitcase
拉格朗日	la	ri	Lagrange (name); Joseph-Louis Lagrange (1735-1813), French mathematician and physicist
拉格比	la	bi	Rugby (game); Rugby school in England
拉沙病毒	la	du	Lassa virus
拉法兰	la	lan	Raffarin, prime minister of France under Jacques Chirac
拉法格	la	ge	Lafargue (name); Paul Lafargue (1842-1911), French socialist and revolutionary activist, son-in-law of Karl Marx
拉法赫	la	he	Rafah, city in Palestine
拉狄克	la	ke	Karl Berngardovich Radek (1885-1939), Bolshevik and Comintern leader, first president of Moscow Sun Yat-sen University, died in prison during Stalin's purges
拉瓦尔	la	er	Laval (name)
拉瓦锡	la	xi	Antoine Lavoisier (1743-1794), French nobleman and scientist, considered the father of modern chemistry
拉生意	la	yi	to tout; to solicit customers
拉白布条	la	tiao	to hold up a white banner (i.e. to protest)
拉皮条	la	tiao	to procure; to act as pimp
拉盖尔	la	er	Laguerre (name); Edmond Laguerre (1834-1886), French mathematician
拉祜族	la	zu	Lahu ethnic group
拉科鲁尼亚	la	ya	La Coruña or A Coruña (city in Galicia, Spain)
拉米夫定	la	ding	Lamivudine, reverse transcriptase inhibitor marketed by GlaxoSmithKline and widely used in the treatment of hepatitis B and AIDS; brand names include Zeffix, Heptovir, Epivir and Epivir-HBV
拉纳卡	la	ka	Larnaca (city in Cyprus); Larnaka
拉美西斯	la	si	Rameses (name of pharaoh)
拉肚子	la	zi	(coll.) to have diarrhea
拉脱维亚	la	ya	Latvia
拉莫斯	la	si	(Philippine President Fidel) Ramos
拉菲草	la	cao	raffia (loanword)
拉萨市	la	shi	Lhasa, prefecture-level city and capital of Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
拉萨条约	la	yue	Treaty of Lhasa (1904) between British empire and Tibet
拉贾斯坦邦	la	bang	Rajasthan (state in India)
拉赫曼尼诺夫	la	fu	Rachmaninoff or Rachmaninov (name); Sergei Rachmaninoff (1873-1943), Russian composer and pianist
拉达克	la	ke	Ladakh, Indian-administered region in the Himalayas
拉近距离	la	li	to bring (people) closer together
拉那烈	la	lie	Prince Norodom Ranariddh (1944-), Cambodian politician and son of former King Sihanouk of Cambodia
拉铆枪	la	qiang	see 鉚釘槍|铆钉枪[mao3 ding1 qiang1]
拉链袋	la	dai	resealable bag; ziplock bag; bag with a zipper
拉锯战	la	zhan	to-and-fro tussle; closely-fought contest
拉长脸	la	lian	to pull a long face; to scowl
拉青格	la	ge	Ratzinger (German surname of Pope Benedict XVI)
拉马丹	la	dan	Ramadan (loanword)
拉马特甘	la	gan	Ramat Gan, city in Israel, location of Bar-Ilan University
拉齐奥	la	ao	Lazio (region in Italy)
拌嘴斗舌	ban	she	to quarrel
拍卖会	pai	hui	auction; CL:場|场[chang3]
拍卖商	pai	shang	auctioneer; auction house
拍卖师	pai	shi	auctioneer
拍婆子	pai	zi	(Beijing slang, 1960s–70s) to chat up girls; to flirt with unfamiliar girls
拍拍屁股走人	pai	ren	to make oneself scarce; to slip away; to take French leave
拍案叫绝	pai	jue	lit. slap the table and shout with praise (idiom); fig. wonderful!; amazing!; great!
拍案惊奇	pai	qi	to slap the table in amazement (idiom); wonderful!; amazing!
拍案而起	pai	qi	(idiom) to slam the table and rise to one's feet in indignation
拍电影	pai	ying	to make a movie
拍立得	pai	de	Polaroid (Tw)
拍纸簿	pai	bu	writing pad
拍胸脯	pai	pu	to vouch for
拍马屁	pai	pi	to flatter; to fawn on; to butter sb up
拍黄瓜	pai	gua	smashed cucumber salad
拎包党	lin	dang	(coll.) purse snatcher
拐弯儿	guai	r	erhua variant of 拐彎|拐弯[guai3 wan1]
拐弯处	guai	chu	corner; bend
拐弯抹角	guai	jiao	lit. going round the curves and skirting the corners (idiom); fig. to speak in a roundabout way; to equivocate
拐角处	guai	chu	street corner
拒不接受	ju	shou	refusing to accept
拒之门外	ju	wai	to lock one's door and refuse to see sb
拒绝服务攻击	ju	ji	(computing) denial-of-service attack (DDOS)
拒腐防变	ju	bian	to fight corruption and forestall moral degeneration
拓展坞	tuo	wu	(computing) hub; dock
拓展视野	tuo	ye	to broaden one's horizons
拓展训练	tuo	lian	outdoor education program
拓扑学	tuo	xue	(math.) topology
拓扑空间	tuo	jian	(math.) topological space
拓扑结构	tuo	gou	topological structure
拓荒者	tuo	zhe	pioneer; groundbreaker
拓跋魏	tuo	wei	Wei of the Northern Dynasties (386-534)
拔凉拔凉	ba	liang	(dialect) very cold; chilled
拔出萝卜带出泥	ba	ni	lit. when you pull a radish out of the ground, some dirt comes up with it (idiom); fig. to uncover, during the investigation of a crime, evidence of other crimes; to cause further problems while working on a problem
拔刀相助	ba	zhu	see 路見不平，拔刀相助|路见不平，拔刀相助[lu4 jian4 bu4 ping2 , ba2 dao1 xiang1 zhu4]
拔地而起	ba	qi	(idiom) (of a building etc) to rise out of the ground
拔尖儿	ba	r	erhua variant of 拔尖[ba2 jian1]
拔根汗毛比腰粗	ba	cu	lit. a hair plucked from (person A) would be thicker than (person B)'s waist (idiom); fig. A is far richer (or more powerful) than B; (used in a pattern such as A拔根汗毛比B的腰粗[A ba2 gen1 han4 mao2 bi3 B de5 yao1 cu1])
拔毛连茹	ba	ru	variant of 拔茅連茹|拔茅连茹[ba2 mao2 lian2 ru2]
拔火罐	ba	guan	(TCM) to cup; to give a cupping treatment; short detachable stove chimney used to help draw fire
拔火罐儿	ba	r	erhua variant of 拔火罐[ba2 huo3 guan4]
拔示巴	ba	ba	Bathsheba, wife of Uriah the Hittite and later of David (according to the Hebrew Bible)
拔罐子	ba	zi	to practice cupping (technique used in TCM)
拔罐法	ba	fa	fire cupping (acupressure technique of Chinese medicine, with fired vacuum cup applied to the skin); ventouse (vacuum method used in obstetrics)
拔节期	ba	qi	elongation stage; jointing stage (agriculture)
拔苗助长	ba	zhang	to spoil things through excessive enthusiasm (idiom)
拔茅连茹	ba	ru	lit. pull up a plant and the roots follow (idiom); fig. also involving others; inextricably tangled together; Invite one and he'll tell all his friends.
拔钉锤	ba	chui	claw hammer
拖下水	tuo	shui	lit. to pull sb into the water; to involve sb in a messy business; to get sb into trouble
拖人下水	tuo	shui	lit. to pull sb into the water; fig. to involve sb in a messy business; to get sb into trouble
拖儿带女	tuo	nv	supporting a wife and children; dragged down by having a family to feed
拖动力	tuo	li	motive force; traction
拖吊车	tuo	che	tow truck
拖后腿	tuo	tui	to impede; to obstruct; to hold back
拖地板	tuo	ban	to mop the floor
拖字诀	tuo	jue	delaying tactics
拖家带口	tuo	kou	(idiom) to take one's whole family along; to have a family in tow; to be tied down by family obligations
拖尾巴	tuo	ba	to obstruct; to be a drag on sb; to delay finishing off a job
拖延战术	tuo	shu	delaying tactics; deliberate procrastination
拖延时间	tuo	jian	to procrastinate; to stall for time; to filibuster
拖延症	tuo	zheng	procrastination
拖拉机	tuo	ji	tractor; CL:臺|台[tai2]
拖拖拉拉	tuo	la	to procrastinate
拖拖沓沓	tuo	ta	dragging one's feet
拖挂车	tuo	che	18-wheeler; big rig; semi-trailer
拖曳伞	tuo	san	parasail
拖曳机	tuo	ji	tractor
拖油瓶	tuo	ping	(derog.) (of a woman) to bring one's children into a second marriage; children by a previous marriage
拖泥带水	tuo	shui	(idiom) muddy and wet; (idiom) (of speech, writing etc) slovenly; sloppy; (of actions) indecisive
拖牵索道	tuo	dao	anchor lift (ski-lift)
拖累症	tuo	zheng	codependency (psychology)
拖车头	tuo	tou	trailer truck
拖鞋面包	tuo	bao	ciabatta (Tw)
拗不过	niu	guo	can't persuade; unable to make (sb) change their mind; unable to resist (sb)
拗口令	ao	ling	tongue twister
拘押营	ju	ying	detention center; prison camp
拘挛儿	ju	r	erhua variant of 拘攣|拘挛[ju1 luan2]
拘束衣	ju	yi	straightjacket
拘留所	ju	suo	detention center; prison
拙于言词	zhuo	ci	to be unable to express oneself clearly (idiom)
拙嘴笨舌	zhuo	she	see 笨嘴拙舌[ben4 zui3 zhuo1 she2]
拙政园	zhuo	yuan	Humble Administrator's Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
招人喜欢	zhao	huan	charming; attractive; delightful
招兵买马	zhao	ma	lit. to recruit soldiers and buy horses (idiom); fig. to raise an army; to recruit new staff
招呼站	zhao	zhan	request bus stop
招商引资	zhao	zi	investment promotion
招待会	zhao	hui	a reception; CL:次[ci4]
招待员	zhao	yuan	service personnel: usher, waiter, receptionist, hostess etc
招待所	zhao	suo	guesthouse; hostel
招投标	zhao	biao	bid inviting and bid offering; bidding; auction
招揽生意	zhao	yi	to advertise; to solicit business
招摇撞骗	zhao	pian	(idiom) to dupe people by passing oneself off as a well-connected individual or a figure of authority
招摇过市	zhao	shi	(idiom) to parade oneself ostentatiously about town
招潮蟹	zhao	xie	fiddler crab (genus Uca)
招灾惹祸	zhao	huo	to invite disaster
招牌动作	zhao	zuo	signature move
招牌纸	zhao	zhi	label; sticker
招牌菜	zhao	cai	signature dish; a restaurant’s most famous dish
招生官	zhao	guan	admissions officer; enrollment officer; college recruiter
招聘会	zhao	hui	recruitment meeting; job fair
招聘机构	zhao	gou	recruiting agency
招聘者	zhao	zhe	prospective employer; job advertiser; recruiter
招股书	zhao	shu	(finance) share prospectus
招股说明书	zhao	shu	prospectus
招蜂引蝶	zhao	die	(lit.) (of a flower) to attract bees and butterflies (idiom); (fig.) to flirt
招财猫	zhao	mao	maneki-neko or "lucky cat", Japanese figurine cat usually found at the entrance of shops, restaurants etc, believed to bring good fortune
招财进宝	zhao	bao	ushering in wealth and prosperity (idiom and traditional greeting, esp. at New Year); We wish you wealth and success!
招贤纳士	zhao	shi	invite the talented and call the valorous (idiom); to recruit talent
招贴画	zhao	hua	picture poster (for advertising or propaganda)
招远市	zhao	shi	Zhaoyuan, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
招降纳叛	zhao	pan	to recruit surrendered enemy and deserters (idiom); to gather together a gang of villains
招风惹草	zhao	cao	(idiom) to bring trouble on oneself
招风惹雨	zhao	yu	see 招風惹草|招风惹草[zhao1 feng1 re3 cao3]
招风揽火	zhao	huo	see 招風惹草|招风惹草[zhao1 feng1 re3 cao3]
招风耳	zhao	er	jug ears
招魂幡	zhao	fan	flag to attract departed spirits
招魂旛	zhao	fan	flag to attract departed spirits
拜人为师	bai	shi	to acknowledge as one's teacher
拜你所赐	bai	ci	(derog.) this is all thanks to you!; well, thanks a lot!
拜占庭	bai	ting	Byzantium; Byzantine or Eastern Roman empire (395-1453)
拜城县	bai	xian	Baicheng, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
拜天地	bai	di	to worship heaven and earth; ritual kneeling by bride and groom in a old-fashioned wedding ceremony; also called 拜堂
拜把子	bai	zi	to become sworn brothers
拜泉县	bai	xian	Baiquan, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
拜火教	bai	jiao	see 祆教[Xian1 jiao4]
拜物教	bai	jiao	fetishism
拜科努尔	bai	er	Baikonur (Russian space launch site in Kazakhstan)
拜金主义	bai	yi	money worship
拜金女	bai	nv	materialistic woman; (slang) gold-digger
拟于不伦	ni	lun	to draw an impossible comparison
拟卤素	ni	su	pseudohalogen, e.g. cyanogen (CN)2
拟古之作	ni	zuo	a work in a classic style; a pastiche
拟声唱法	ni	fa	scat singing
拟声词	ni	ci	onomatopoeia
拟大朱雀	ni	que	(bird species of China) streaked rosefinch (Carpodacus rubicilloides)
拟游隼	ni	sun	(bird species of China) Barbary falcon (Falco pelegrinoides)
拣佛烧香	jian	xiang	to choose which Buddha to burn incense to (idiom); fig. to curry favor from the right person
拣信室	jian	shi	mail sorting office
拣饮择食	jian	shi	to choose one's food carefully; to be picky
拥兵自重	yong	zhong	(of a warlord etc) to assemble one's personal army, thereby presenting a challenge to the central government
拥护者	yong	zhe	supporter (person)
拥挤不堪	yong	kan	overcrowded; jam-packed
拥有权	yong	quan	right of ownership
拦河坝	lan	ba	a dam across a river
拦精灵	lan	ling	(slang) condom (pun on 藍精靈|蓝精灵[Lan2 jing1 ling2])
拦路虎	lan	hu	stumbling block
拧成一股绳	ning	sheng	to twist (strands) together to form a rope; (fig.) to unite; to work together
拨乱反正	bo	zheng	bring order out of chaos; set to rights things which have been thrown into disorder
拨云见日	bo	ri	lit. to dispel the clouds and see the sun (idiom); fig. to restore justice
拨号盘	bo	pan	telephone dial
拨号连接	bo	jie	dial-up connection; dial-up networking
拨号音	bo	yin	dial tone
拨弦乐器	bo	qi	plucked string or stringed instrument; plucked instrument
拨浪鼓	bo	gu	rattle drum; pellet drum – a hand drum with two pellets attached to strings on either side, mounted on a rod that is twirled to make the pellets strike the drum (used in ritual music, as a children's toy or as a street vendor's noisemaker)
拨火棍	bo	gun	stick or rod used to tend a fire
择不开	zhai	kai	impossible to separate; impossible to disentangle; cannot take time out
择善固执	ze	zhi	to choose what is good and hold fast to it (idiom)
择善而从	ze	cong	to choose the right course and follow it (idiom)
择日不如撞日	ze	ri	lit. carefully setting an auspicious date does not beat seizing an opportunity (idiom); fig. seize the occasion
择日子	zhai	zi	to pick an auspicious day
括约肌	kuo	ji	sphincter
拭目以待	shi	dai	lit. to wipe one's eyes and wait (idiom); to wait and see
拭目倾耳	shi	er	to watch and listen attentively
拯救大兵瑞恩	zheng	en	Saving Private Ryan (1998 movie)
拱墅区	gong	qu	Gongshu, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
拱手相让	gong	rang	(idiom) to surrender sth without resistance
拱手让人	gong	ren	(idiom) to surrender sth without resistance
拳击台	quan	tai	boxing ring
拳击手	quan	shou	boxer
拳击手套	quan	tao	boxing glove
拳击选手	quan	shou	boxer
拳头产品	quan	pin	flagship product; star product
拳打脚踢	quan	ti	lit. to punch and kick (idiom); to beat up; fig. determined to sort out a problem
拳脚相向	quan	xiang	to square off; to exchange blows; to rain blows on sb
拼到底	pin	di	to brave it out; to the bitter end
拼刺刀	pin	dao	bayonet charge
拼命三郎	pin	lang	brave man, willing to risk his life
拼命讨好	pin	hao	to throw oneself at sb or sth; to bend over backwards to help
拼图玩具	pin	ju	jigsaw puzzle
拼多多	pin	duo	Pinduoduo, social e-commerce company founded in 2015
拼板游戏	pin	xi	jigsaw puzzle; wood block puzzle
拼板玩具	pin	ju	jigsaw puzzle; wood block puzzle
拼死拼活	pin	huo	one's utmost; (to fight or work) desperately hard; to put up a life or death struggle
拼花地板	pin	ban	floor with tiled design
拼起来	pin	lai	to put together
拼音字母	pin	mu	phonetic letters
拼音文字	pin	zi	phonetic alphabet; alphabetic writing system
拾人涕唾	shi	tuo	to plagiarize (idiom)
拾人牙慧	shi	hui	to pick up what others say (idiom); to pass off other people's opinions as one's own; to parrot
拾级而上	she	shang	to walk slowly up a flight of steps (idiom)
拾遗补缺	shi	que	to remedy omissions and correct errors (idiom)
拾金不昧	shi	mei	to pick up money and not hide it (idiom); to return property to its owner
拾音器	shi	qi	pickup (electro-acoustic transducer)
拿一血	na	xue	(gaming) to get first blood; (slang) to take (sb's) virginity
拿不准	na	zhun	in doubt; unsure of sth; unable to decide; indecisive
拿不出手	na	shou	not presentable; shoddy and too embarrassing to show
拿不动	na	dong	to be unable to lift (sth); to find (sth) too heavy
拿主意	na	yi	to make a decision; to make up one's mind
拿你没办法	na	fa	don't know what to do with you (used to express mild exasperation)
拿你没辙	na	zhe	see 拿你沒辦法|拿你没办法[na2 ni3 mei2 ban4 fa3]
拿俄米	na	mi	Naomi (name)
拿大顶	na	ding	to do a handstand
拿得起放得下	na	xia	lit. can pick it up or put it down (idiom); fig. to take what comes; to meet gains or losses with equanimity
拿手好戏	na	xi	the role an actor plays best (idiom); (fig.) one's specialty; one's forte
拿手菜	na	cai	specialty (dish)
拿摩温	na	wen	see 那摩溫|那摩温[na4 mo2 wen1]
拿撒勒	na	le	Nazareth (in Biblical Palestine)
拿来主义	na	yi	the attitude of mechanically borrowing (ideas etc)
拿架子	na	zi	to throw one's weight around; to put on airs
拿着鸡毛当令箭	na	jian	to wave a chicken feather as a token of authority (idiom); to assume unwarranted authority on the basis of some pretext
拿破仑	na	lun	variant of 拿破崙|拿破仑[Na2 po4 lun2]
拿铁咖啡	na	fei	caffè latte
持不同政见	chi	jian	(politically) dissenting; dissident
持不同政见者	chi	zhe	(political) dissident
持久性毒剂	chi	ji	persistent agent
持久战	chi	zhan	prolonged war; war of attrition
持之以恒	chi	heng	to pursue unremittingly (idiom); to persevere
持仓量	chi	liang	position (finance)
持份者	chi	zhe	(HK) stakeholder
持卡人	chi	ren	cardholder
持国天	chi	tian	Dhritarashtra (one of the Four Heavenly Kings)
持平之论	chi	lun	fair argument; unbiased view
持有人	chi	ren	holder
持枪抢劫	chi	jie	armed robbery
持橐簪笔	chi	bi	to serve as a counselor (idiom)
持续性植物状态	chi	tai	persistent vegetative state (medicine)
持续时间	chi	jian	duration
挂一漏万	gua	wan	to mention some but omit many others (idiom); to leave out much more than one includes
挂号信	gua	xin	registered letter
挂号证	gua	zheng	register card
挂在嘴上	gua	shang	to pay lip service to; to keep mentioning (without doing anything); to blather on about sth
挂在嘴边	gua	bian	to keep saying (sth) over and over
挂坠盒	gua	he	locket
挂急诊	gua	zhen	to register as an emergency case at a hospital
挂空挡	gua	dang	see 放空擋|放空挡[fang4 kong1 dang3]
挂羊头卖狗肉	gua	rou	lit. to hang a sheep's head while selling dog meat (idiom); fig. to cheat; dishonest advertising
挂钩儿	gua	r	erhua variant of 掛鉤|挂钩[gua4 gou1]
指事字	zhi	zi	ideogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters); Chinese character indicating an idea, such as up and down; also known as self-explanatory character
指令集	zhi	ji	(computing) instruction set
指关节	zhi	jie	knuckle
指北针	zhi	zhen	compass
指南宫	zhi	gong	Zhinan Temple, Taoist temple in the hills of Muzha 木柵|木栅[Mu4 zha4], Taipei
指南车	zhi	che	a mechanical compass invented by Zu Chongzhi 祖沖之|祖冲之
指南针	zhi	zhen	compass
指向装置	zhi	zhi	pointing device (computing)
指天椒	zhi	jiao	see 朝天椒[chao2 tian1 jiao1]
指导员	zhi	yuan	instructor; coach; political instructor (in the PLA)
指导教授	zhi	shou	adviser; advising professor
指导者	zhi	zhe	coach; mentor; counselor; instructor; director; guide; conductor
指导课	zhi	ke	tutorial; period of tuition for one or two students
指尖陀螺	zhi	luo	fidget spinner
指战员	zhi	yuan	PLA commanders and fighters
指手划脚	zhi	jiao	variant of 指手畫腳|指手画脚[zhi3 shou3 hua4 jiao3]
指手画脚	zhi	jiao	to gesticulate while talking (idiom); to explain by waving one's hands; to criticize or give orders summarily
指指点点	zhi	dian	to gesticulate; to point out; to point the finger of blame
指挥中心	zhi	xin	command center
指挥官	zhi	guan	commander
指挥家	zhi	jia	(music) conductor
指挥棒	zhi	bang	baton
指挥者	zhi	zhe	conductor; director
指挥部	zhi	bu	headquarters; command post
指数函数	zhi	shu	exponential function
指数基金	zhi	jin	index fund
指数套利	zhi	li	index arbitrage
指数期权	zhi	quan	index options
指日可待	zhi	dai	imminent; just around the corner (idiom)
指桑骂槐	zhi	huai	lit. to point at the mulberry tree and curse the locust tree; fig. to scold sb indirectly; to make oblique accusations (idiom)
指点江山	zhi	shan	to talk idly about important matters (idiom); to set the world to rights; to pass judgment on everything
指点迷津	zhi	jin	to show sb how to get to the right path
指甲刀	zhi	dao	nail clipper
指甲剪	zhi	jian	nail clipper
指甲油	zhi	you	nail polish
指甲盖	zhi	gai	fingernail
指甲钳	zhi	qian	nail clipper
指着和尚骂秃子	zhi	zi	lit. to insult a bald man while pointing at a monk (idiom); fig. to insult indirectly; to criticize obliquely
指示代词	zhi	ci	demonstrative pronoun
指示剂	zhi	ji	indicator
指示器	zhi	qi	indicator
指示符	zhi	fu	indicator
指腹为婚	zhi	hun	to propose the future marriage of two unborn babies on condition that one turns out to be a boy, and the other, a girl (idiom)
指鸡骂狗	zhi	gou	lit. to point at the chicken while scolding the dog (idiom); fig. to make indirect criticisms
指鹿为马	zhi	ma	making a deer out to be a horse (idiom); deliberate misrepresentation
指鹿作马	zhi	ma	to take a deer and call it a horse (idiom); deliberate inversion of the truth
按下葫芦浮起瓢	an	piao	solve one problem only to find another cropping up
按兵不动	an	dong	to hold back one's troops without moving (idiom); to bide one's time
按劳分配	an	pei	distribution according to work
按图索骥	an	ji	lit. looking for a fine horse using only a picture (idiom); fig. to do things along rigid, conventional lines; to try and find sth with the help of a clue
按手礼	an	li	ordination
按捺不住	an	zhu	to be unable to hold back
按摩师	an	shi	masseur; massage therapist
按摩棒	an	bang	vibrator; dildo
按摩浴缸	an	gang	jacuzzi; whirlpool tub
按时间先后	an	hou	chronological
按步就班	an	ban	variant of 按部就班[an4 bu4 jiu4 ban1]
按理说	an	shuo	it is reasonable to say that...
按部就班	an	ban	(idiom) to follow the prescribed order; to keep to the working routine
按键音	an	yin	keypad tone; key tone
按需出版	an	ban	publishing on demand
按需分配	an	pei	distribution according to need
挎兜儿	kua	r	erhua variant of 挎兜[kua4 dou1]
挑三拣四	tiao	si	to be picky; to be choosy
挑三窝四	tiao	si	to sow discord everywhere
挑口板	tiao	ban	fascia; eaves board
挑大梁	tiao	liang	to play a leading role; to bear a heavy responsibility
挑头儿	tiao	r	erhua variant of 挑頭|挑头[tiao3 tou2]
挑山工	tiao	gong	laborers who carry cargo up and down the mountains on shoulder poles
挑战者	tiao	zhe	challenger
挑战者号	tiao	hao	Space Shuttle Challenger
挑拨是非	tiao	fei	to incite a quarrel (idiom); to sow discord between people; to tell tales; to make mischief
挑拨离间	tiao	jian	to sow dissension (idiom); to drive a wedge between
挑毛剔刺	tiao	ci	to find fault; to carp; nitpicking
挑毛剔刺儿	tiao	r	erhua variant of 挑毛剔刺[tiao1 mao2 ti1 ci4]
挑毛病	tiao	bing	to nitpick; petty criticism; to nag
挑灯夜战	tiao	zhan	to raise a lantern and fight at night (idiom); fig. to work into the night; to burn the midnight oil
挑灯拨火	tiao	huo	to sow discord; to provoke
挑肥拣瘦	tiao	shou	(idiom) to cherry-pick; to pick the best parts for oneself; to be choosy
挑花眼	tiao	yan	(fig.) to get cross-eyed; to be bewildered
挑逗性	tiao	xing	provocative; tantalizing; titillating
挖土机	wa	ji	excavator; backhoe
挖墙脚	wa	jiao	to undermine; to let someone down; to seduce someone away from something
挖掘机	wa	ji	excavator; excavating machine
挖掘机械	wa	xie	excavator; bulldozer
挖泥船	wa	chuan	dredger
挖空心思	wa	si	to dig for thoughts (idiom); to search everything for an answer; to rack one's brains
挖耳勺	wa	shao	ear pick
挖肉补疮	wa	chuang	to cut one's flesh to cover a sore (idiom); faced with a current crisis, to make it worse by a temporary expedient
挖鼻子	wa	zi	to pick one's nose
挚友良朋	zhi	peng	intimate friend and companion (idiom)
挟天子以令天下	xie	xia	(expr.) hold the feudal overlord and you control the whole country
挟天子以令诸侯	xie	hou	(expr.) hold the feudal overlord and you control his vassals
挟细拿粗	xie	cu	to provoke
挠痒痒	nao	yang	to tickle
挡泥板	dang	ban	(car, bicycle etc) fender; mudguard; (UK) wing
挡箭牌	dang	pai	arrow-blocking shield; (fig.) pretext; cover; sth used to deflect blame, criticism or pressure
挡风墙	dang	qiang	lit. windbreak; fig. protector
挡风玻璃	dang	li	windshield; wind screen
挤上去	ji	qu	to squeeze oneself up into (a crowded vehicle etc)
挤挤插插	ji	cha	crowded tightly; jam-packed
挤来挤去	ji	qu	to mill about; to jostle
挤牙膏	ji	gao	lit. to squeeze out toothpaste; fig. to extract a confession under pressure
挤眉弄眼	ji	yan	to make eyes; to wink
挤破头	ji	tou	to fight tooth and nail to get sth
挤花袋	ji	dai	piping bag (cookery)
挥之不去	hui	qu	impossible to get rid of
挥发性	hui	xing	volatility; volatile
挥发性存储器	hui	qi	volatile memory
挥发油	hui	you	volatile oil (in general); gasoline
挥斥方遒	hui	qiu	full of vim
挥毫洒墨	hui	mo	to wield a writing brush (idiom)
挥汗如雨	hui	yu	to drip with sweat; sweat poured off (him)
挥汗成雨	hui	yu	to drip with sweat; sweat poured off (him)
挥洒自如	hui	ru	(idiom) to do (sth) with great aplomb
挥金如土	hui	tu	lit. to squander money like dirt (idiom); fig. to spend money like water; extravagant
挥霍无度	hui	du	(idiom) to squander recklessly; to spend extravagantly
挨不上	ai	shang	to be irrelevant; to be superfluous
挨个儿	ai	r	erhua variant of 挨個|挨个[ai1 ge4]
挨冻受饿	ai	e	see 挨餓受凍|挨饿受冻[ai2 e4 shou4 dong4]
挨呲儿	ai	r	erhua form of 挨呲[ai2 ci1]
挨头子	ai	zi	to be criticized; to suffer blame
挨家挨户	ai	hu	to go from house to house
挨打受气	ai	qi	to suffer bullying and beating (idiom)
挨打受骂	ai	ma	to suffer beatings and receive abuse (idiom)
挨时间	ai	jian	to stall; to play for time
挨板子	ai	zi	to suffer beating; fig. to be severely criticized; to take a hammering
挨肩儿	ai	r	in rapid succession (of children, close in age); shoulder-to-shoulder
挨肩擦背	ai	bei	(idiom) to be crowded together
挨边儿	ai	r	erhua variant of 挨邊|挨边[ai1 bian1]
挨门挨户	ai	hu	see 挨家挨戶|挨家挨户[ai1 jia1 ai1 hu4]
挨饥抵饿	ai	e	to suffer from hunger
挨饿受冻	ai	dong	(idiom) to go cold and hungry
挪亚方舟	nuo	zhou	Noah's ark
挪窝儿	nuo	r	(dialect) to move (after being some time in the same place); to move (house)
挫折感	cuo	gan	frustration
振兴区	zhen	qu	Zhenxing, a district of Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
振安区	zhen	qu	Zhen'an, a district of Dandong City 丹東市|丹东市[Dan1 dong1 Shi4], Liaoning
振振有词	zhen	ci	to speak forcefully and with justice (idiom); to argue with the courage of one's convictions
振振有辞	zhen	ci	variant of 振振有詞|振振有词[zhen4 zhen4 you3 ci2]
振聋发聩	zhen	kui	lit. so loud that even the deaf can hear (idiom); rousing even the apathetic
振臂一呼	zhen	hu	(idiom) to issue a call for action; to raise one's hand and issue a rousing call
振荡器	zhen	qi	oscillator
挺而走险	ting	xian	variant of 鋌而走險|铤而走险[ting3 er2 zou3 xian3]
挺身而出	ting	chu	to step forward bravely
捅娄子	tong	zi	to make a mess of sth
捅楼子	tong	zi	variant of 捅婁子|捅娄子[tong3 lou2 zi5]
捅马蜂窝	tong	wo	(fig.) to stir up a hornet's nest
捉拿归案	zhuo	an	to bring to justice
捉捕器	zhuo	qi	trap (for animals etc)
捉摸不定	zhuo	ding	(idiom) unpredictable; elusive; hard to pin down
捉襟见肘	zhuo	zhou	lit. pulling on the lapels exposes the elbows (idiom); strapped for cash; unable to make ends meet
捉迷藏	zhuo	cang	to play hide-and-seek
捋胳膊	luo	bo	to push up one's sleeves
捋臂揎拳	luo	quan	lit. to push up one's sleeves and bare one's fists; to be eager to get started
捋虎须	luo	xu	lit. to stroke the tiger's whiskers; to do sth very daring
捋袖子	luo	zi	to push up one's sleeves
捍卫者	han	zhe	defender (usu. of sth abstract such as people's rights or a government policy)
捏一把冷汗	nie	han	to break out into a cold sweat (idiom)
捏一把汗	nie	han	to break out into a cold sweat (idiom)
捏脊治疗	nie	liao	chiropractic (medicine)
捐款者	juan	zhe	donor; benefactor; contributor (to charity)
捐益表	juan	biao	tax benefits table
捐血者	juan	zhe	blood donor; also called 供血者
捐赠盈余	juan	yu	surplus from donation (accountancy)
捐赠者	juan	zhe	donor; contributor
捕禽人	bu	ren	birdcatcher; fowler
捕虏岩	bu	yan	xenolith (geology)
捕虫叶	bu	ye	insect-catching leaf
捕蝇草	bu	cao	Venus flytrap (Dionaea muscipula)
捕风捉影	bu	ying	lit. chasing the wind and clutching at shadows (idiom); fig. groundless accusations; to act on hearsay evidence
捕食者	bu	zhe	predator
捕鲸船	bu	chuan	whaler; whaling vessel
捕鸟蛛	bu	zhu	tarantula
捕鼠器	bu	qi	mousetrap
捞一把	lao	ba	to profiteer; to gain some underhand advantage
捞什子	lao	zi	encumbrance; burden; that awful thing (colloquial)
捞外快	lao	kuai	to make extra money
捞油水	lao	shui	(coll.) to gain profit (usu. by underhand means)
捞稻草	lao	cao	(fig.) to clutch at straws (in desperation); to take advantage of the situation (unscrupulously)
损人不利己	sun	ji	to harm others without benefiting oneself (idiom)
损人利己	sun	ji	harming others for one's personal benefit (idiom); personal gain to the detriment of others
损公肥私	sun	si	to damage the public interest for personal profit (idiom); personal profit at public expense; venal and selfish behavior
损益表	sun	biao	income statement (US); profit and loss account (UK)
损耗品	sun	pin	consumables
捡了芝麻丢了西瓜	jian	gua	to let go of the big prize while grabbing at trifles (idiom)
捡到篮里就是菜	jian	cai	all is grist that comes to the mill (idiom)
换个儿	huan	r	to change places; to swap places
换位思考	huan	kao	to put oneself in sb else’s shoes
换句话说	huan	shuo	in other words
换房旅游	huan	you	house-swap vacation
换挡杆	huan	gan	gear lever
换档键	huan	jian	(computing) Shift key
换汤不换药	huan	yao	different broth but the same old medicine (idiom); a change in name only; a change in form but not in substance
换热器	huan	qi	heat exchanger
换而言之	huan	zhi	in other words
换言之	huan	zhi	in other words
捣蛋鬼	dao	gui	troublemaker
捧上天	peng	tian	to praise to the skies; to shower with excessive praise
捧到天上	peng	shang	to praise lavishly
捧腹大笑	peng	xiao	(idiom) to split one's sides laughing
捧腹绝倒	peng	dao	to laugh until it hurts; to laugh heartily
捧臭脚	peng	jiao	(coll.) to bootlick
捧角儿	peng	r	erhua form of 捧角[peng3 jue2]
据为己有	ju	you	(idiom) to illegally take possession of; to appropriate
据估计	ju	ji	according to estimates
据实以告	ju	gao	to report according to the facts; to tell the truth; to tell it like it is
据我所知	ju	zhi	as far as I know; to the best of my knowledge
据我看	ju	kan	in my view; in my opinion; from what I can see
据报导	ju	dao	according to (news) reports
据报道	ju	dao	according to a report; It is reported that...
据理力争	ju	zheng	to contend on strong grounds; to argue strongly for what is right
据统计	ju	ji	according to statistics
捶胸顿足	chui	zu	(idiom) to beat one's chest and stamp one's feet (in sorrow, anguish etc)
捷克人	jie	ren	Czech person
捷克共和国	jie	guo	Czech Republic
捷克斯洛伐克	jie	ke	Republic of Czechoslovakia (1918-1992)
捷克语	jie	yu	Czech (language)
捷安特	jie	te	Giant Manufacturing, Taiwanese bicycle manufacturer
捷尔任斯克	jie	ke	Dzerzhinsk, Russian city
捷尔梅兹	jie	zi	Termez city in southeast Uzbekistan
捷报频传	jie	chuan	victory reports pour in (idiom); news of success in an endless stream
捷足先登	jie	deng	the quick-footed climb up first (idiom); the early bird catches the worm; first come, first served
捷达航空货运	jie	yun	Jett8 Airlines Cargo (based in Singapore)
掀天揭地	xian	di	earth-shattering
掀背车	xian	che	hatchback
掀风鼓浪	xian	lang	to raise a storm; to stir up trouble; to instigate
掇刀区	duo	qu	Duodao, a district of Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
掇臀捧屁	duo	pi	to hold up buttocks and praise a fart (idiom); to use flatter to get what one wants; to toady; boot-licking
授人以柄	shou	bing	to hand someone the swordhilt (idiom); to give someone a hold on oneself
授权令	shou	ling	warrant (law)
掉书袋	diao	dai	lit. to wave around one's bookbag (idiom); fig. to show off one's erudition; a person who does so
掉以轻心	diao	xin	(idiom) to treat sth lightly; to lower one's guard
掉价儿	diao	r	erhua variant of 掉價|掉价[diao4 jia4]
掉头就走	diao	zou	to turn on one's heels; to walk away abruptly
掉点儿	diao	r	drip of rain
掉过儿	diao	r	erhua variant of 掉過|掉过[diao4 guo4]
掉链子	diao	zi	to have one's bicycle chain come off; (fig.) to let sb down; to drop the ball; to screw up
掌上压	zhang	ya	(HK, Malaysia) push-up; press-up (exercise)
掌上明珠	zhang	zhu	lit. a pearl in the palm (idiom); fig. beloved person (esp. daughter)
掌上电脑	zhang	nao	handheld computer; PDA (personal digital assistant); Pocket PC
掌中戏	zhang	xi	see 布袋戲|布袋戏[bu4 dai4 xi4]
掌声雷动	zhang	dong	thunderous applause (idiom)
掌子面	zhang	mian	face (mining)
掌玺大臣	zhang	chen	chancellor (rank in various European states); grand chancellor
掌玺官	zhang	guan	chancellor (rank in various European states)
掌门人	zhang	ren	(wuxia) sect leader; (fig.) person in charge; head; leader; proprietor
掏心掏肺	tao	fei	to be totally devoted (to a person)
掏耳勺	tao	shao	ear pick
掏腰包	tao	bao	to dip into one's pocket; to pay out of pocket; to foot the bill
掐脖子	qia	zi	to seize by the throat
排他性	pai	xing	exclusiveness; exclusivity
排华法案	pai	an	Chinese Exclusion Act, a US law restricting Chinese immigration from 1882-1943
排名榜	pai	bang	ranking; ordered list; top 20
排名表	pai	biao	league table; roll of honor
排头兵	pai	bing	lit. frontline troops; leader; trailblazer
排山倒海	pai	hai	lit. to topple the mountains and overturn the seas (idiom); earth-shattering; fig. gigantic; of spectacular significance
排忧解难	pai	nan	to resolve a difficult situation and leave worries behind (idiom)
排气孔	pai	kong	an air vent; a ventilation shaft
排气扇	pai	shan	exhaust fan
排气管	pai	guan	exhaust pipe
排水口	pai	kou	plughole; drainage hole
排水孔	pai	kong	plughole; drainage hole
排水沟	pai	gou	gutter
排水渠	pai	qu	drainage
排水管	pai	guan	drainpipe; waste pipe
排水量	pai	liang	displacement
排污管	pai	guan	sewer
排泄物	pai	wu	excreta; waste matter (feces, urine etc)
排泄系统	pai	tong	drainage system; excretory system
排泻物	pai	wu	variant of 排泄物[pai2 xie4 wu4]
排湾族	pai	zu	Paiwan, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
排灯节	pai	jie	Diwali (Hindu festival)
排犹主义	pai	yi	antisemitism
排行榜	pai	bang	the charts (of best-sellers); table of ranking
排起长队	pai	dui	to form a long line (i.e. of people waiting)
排除万难	pai	nan	to overcome all obstacles; to overcome countless difficulties
排难解纷	pai	fen	to remove perils and solve disputes (idiom); to reconcile differences
排风口	pai	kou	exhaust vent
排骨精	pai	jing	(jocular) anorexic girl; a bag of bones
掖掖盖盖	ye	gai	stealthily; clandestinely
掘土机	jue	ji	excavator
掘墓工人	jue	ren	grave digger
掘墓鞭尸	jue	shi	to exhume a body for public flogging (idiom)
掠夺者	lve	zhe	robber; plunderer; predator
探口气	tan	qi	to sound out opinions; to get sb's views by polite or indirect questioning; also written 探口風|探口风[tan4 kou3 feng1]
探口风	tan	feng	to sound out opinions; to get sb's views by polite or indirect questioning
探囊取物	tan	wu	to feel in one's pocket and take sth (idiom); as easy as pie; in the bag
探头探脑	tan	nao	to stick one's head out and look around (idiom)
探头探脑儿	tan	r	erhua variant of 探頭探腦|探头探脑[tan4 tou2 tan4 nao3]
探幽发微	tan	wei	to probe deeply and uncover minute details
探测器	tan	qi	detector; probe
探测字	tan	zi	(cognitive psychology) probe letter
探照灯	tan	deng	searchlight
探矿者	tan	zhe	prospector; person exploring for minerals
探究式	tan	shi	exploratory
探索性	tan	xing	exploratory
探视权	tan	quan	visitation rights (law)
探路者	tan	zhe	Pathfinder, NASA spacecraft sent to Mars in 1977
探身子	tan	zi	to bend forward; to lean out
探险家	tan	jia	explorer
探险者	tan	zhe	explorer; adventurer
探雷人员	tan	yuan	mine detector (employee)
探骊得珠	tan	zhu	to pluck a pearl from the black dragon (idiom, from Zhuangzi); fig. to pick out the salient points (from a tangled situation); to see through to the nub
接下来	jie	lai	to accept; to take; next
接二连三	jie	san	(idiom) one after another; in quick succession
接入点	jie	dian	(computer networking) access point
接力棒	jie	bang	relay baton; (fig.) responsibilities (passed over to one's successor)
接力赛	jie	sai	relay race; CL:場|场[chang3]
接力赛跑	jie	pao	relay race
接受者	jie	zhe	recipient; person receiving sth
接合菌纲	jie	gang	Zygomycetes
接地气	jie	qi	in touch with the common people; down-to-earth
接尾词	jie	ci	suffix (in Japanese and Korean grammar)
接待员	jie	yuan	receptionist
接待室	jie	shi	reception room
接收器	jie	qi	receiver
接收机	jie	ji	receiver; TV or radio receiver
接棒人	jie	ren	successor
接泊车	jie	che	shuttle bus
接班人	jie	ren	successor
接生婆	jie	po	midwife
接线员	jie	yuan	switchboard operator
接线板	jie	ban	power strip
接线生	jie	sheng	switchboard operator; telephone operator
接线盒	jie	he	junction box (elec.)
接触不良	jie	liang	loose or defective contact (elec.)
接触器	jie	qi	contactor
接踵而来	jie	lai	to come one after the other
接连不断	jie	duan	(idiom) in unbroken succession; continuous
接通费	jie	fei	connection charge
接驳车	jie	che	shuttle bus ferrying passengers between train stations on two different rail lines
接骨木	jie	mu	elder or elderberry (genus Sambucus)
控制台	kong	tai	control desk; console
控制室	kong	shi	control room
控制权	kong	quan	control (as in "to win control")
控制杆	kong	gan	control lever; joystick
控制棒	kong	bang	control rods
控制狂	kong	kuang	control freak
控制论	kong	lun	cybernetics
控球后卫	kong	wei	(basketball) point guard
控股公司	kong	si	holding company
控辩交易	kong	yi	plea bargaining; plea agreement
控辩协议	kong	yi	plea bargain (law)
推三阻四	tui	si	to use all sorts of excuses
推介会	tui	hui	promotional seminar; promotional event
推动力	tui	li	driving force
推土机	tui	ji	bulldozer
推心置腹	tui	fu	to give one's bare heart into sb else's keeping (idiom); sb has one's absolute confidence; to trust completely; to confide in sb with entire sincerity
推拉门	tui	men	sliding door
推推搡搡	tui	sang	to push and shove
推斥力	tui	li	(physics) repulsive force
推本溯源	tui	yuan	to go back to the source
推来推去	tui	qu	(idiom) to rudely push and pull others; (idiom) to evade responsibility and push it to others
推杯换盏	tui	zhan	(idiom) to drink together in a convivial atmosphere
推波助澜	tui	lan	to push the wave and add to the billows (idiom); to add momentum; to encourage sth to get bigger; to add fuel to the fire
推理小说	tui	shuo	murder mystery (novel); whodunit
推而广之	tui	zhi	to apply sth more broadly; by logical extension; and, by extension,
推荐书	tui	shu	recommendation letter
推荐信	tui	xin	recommendation letter
推贤让能	tui	neng	to cede to the virtuous and yield to the talented (idiom)
推车发动	tui	dong	to push-start (a car)
推进剂	tui	ji	propellant; rocket fuel
推进器	tui	qi	propeller; propulsion unit; thruster
推进机	tui	ji	see 推進器|推进器[tui1 jin4 qi4]
推进舱	tui	cang	propulsion module; (astronautics) service module
推重比	tui	bi	thrust-to-weight ratio
推销员	tui	yuan	sales representative; salesperson
推陈出新	tui	xin	to push out the old and bring in the new (idiom); to innovate
推陈布新	tui	xin	to push out the old and bring in the new (idiom); to innovate; to go beyond old ideas; advancing all the time
推陈致新	tui	xin	see 推陳出新|推陈出新[tui1 chen2 chu1 xin1]
掩人耳目	yan	mu	to fool people (idiom); to pull the wool over people's eyes
掩样法	yan	fa	illusion
掩耳盗铃	yan	ling	lit. to cover one's ears whilst stealing a bell; to deceive oneself; to bury one's head in the sand (idiom)
掩面而泣	yan	qi	to bury one's head in one's hands and weep (idiom)
措勤县	cuo	xian	Coqên, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
措手不及	cuo	ji	no time to deal with it (idiom); caught unprepared
措置裕如	cuo	ru	to handle easily (idiom); effortless
措美县	cuo	xian	Comai, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
措辞强硬	cuo	ying	strongly-worded
掰开揉碎	bai	sui	lit. to pull apart and knead to a pulp; fig. to analyze minutely from every angle; to chew sth over
掰手腕	bai	wan	arm wrestling
掰腕子	bai	zi	arm wrestling
掳人勒赎	lu	shu	to kidnap for ransom
掷地有声	zhi	sheng	lit. if thrown on the floor, it will make a sound (idiom); fig. (of one's words) powerful and resonating; to have substance
掷骰子	zhi	zi	to throw the dice
掸邦高原	shan	yuan	Shan plateau of east Myanmar (Burma)
掺沙子	chan	zi	to mix in some sand (e.g. when making concrete); (fig.) to place outsiders into a monolithic group (to infiltrate or disrupt it etc)
掼奶油	guan	you	whipped cream
提亲事	ti	shi	to propose marriage
提供商	ti	shang	provider (company)
提供者	ti	zhe	supplier; provider
提倡者	ti	zhe	proponent; advocate; pioneer
提克里特	ti	te	Tikrit
提前投票	ti	piao	early vote
提告人	ti	ren	plaintiff
提喻法	ti	fa	synecdoche
提壶芦	ti	lu	unidentified type of bird referred to in ancient Chinese poems
提多书	ti	shu	Epistle of St Paul to Titus
提头儿	ti	r	to give a lead
提字器	ti	qi	teleprompter
提学御史	ti	shi	superintendent of education (formal title)
提尔市	ti	shi	Tyre (Lebanon)
提布卢斯	ti	si	Tibullus (55 BC-19 BC), Latin poet
提心吊胆	ti	dan	(idiom) nervous; fearful; on edge
提拉米苏	ti	su	(loanword) tiramisu
提摩太	ti	tai	Timothy
提摩太前书	ti	shu	First epistle of St Paul to Timothy
提摩太后书	ti	shu	Second Epistle of St Paul to Timothy
提摩西草	ti	cao	(loanword) Timothy grass
提案人	ti	ren	proposer
提款卡	ti	ka	debit card; ATM card
提款机	ti	ji	bank autoteller; ATM
提水工程	ti	cheng	project to raise low-lying water for irrigation purposes
提示付款	ti	kuan	to present (a bill of exchange etc) for payment
提示承兑	ti	dui	to present (a draft) for acceptance (commerce)
提示音	ti	yin	beep
提神剂	ti	ji	stimulant; psychostimulant; agrypnotic
提神醒脑	ti	nao	to refresh and clear the mind (idiom); invigorating; bracing
提称语	ti	yu	epistolary formula used at the head of a letter
提笔忘字	ti	zi	to have difficulty remembering how to write Chinese characters
提篮儿	ti	r	a basket
提纲挈领	ti	ling	to concentrate on the main points (idiom); to bring out the essentials
提线木偶	ti	ou	marionette
提葫芦	ti	lu	variant of 提壺蘆|提壶芦[ti2 hu2 lu2]
提词器	ti	qi	teleprompter
提货单	ti	dan	bill of lading
提起公诉	ti	su	to prosecute sb
提起精神	ti	shen	to raise one's spirits; to take courage
提醒物	ti	wu	reminder
插不上手	cha	shou	to be unable to intervene
插入因子	cha	zi	(genetics) insertion element
插入语	cha	yu	interjection
插卡式	cha	shi	(of a device, e.g. public telephone, ticket inspection machine) designed to have a card or ticket inserted
插座板	cha	ban	power strip
插播广告	cha	gao	slot advertisement; interstitial ad; splash ad
插科打诨	cha	hun	to include impromptu comic material in opera performance (idiom); to jest; buffoonery
插线板	cha	ban	power strip; powerboard (with multiple electrical sockets)
插翅难飞	cha	fei	lit. even given wings, you couldn't fly (idiom); fig. impossible to escape
揠苗助长	ya	zhang	see 拔苗助長|拔苗助长[ba2 miao2 zhu4 zhang3]
揣在怀里	chuai	li	to tuck into one's bosom
揣着明白装糊涂	chuai	tu	to pretend to not know; to play dumb
揪心扒肝	jiu	gan	(idiom) extremely anxious; anguished
揪心揪肺	jiu	fei	heart-wrenching
揪辫子	jiu	zi	to grab sb by the queue (i.e. hair); to seize on weak points; to exploit the opponent's shortcomings
揭不开锅	jie	guo	to be unable to afford food
揭东区	jie	qu	Jiedong, a district of Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
揭幕式	jie	shi	opening ceremony; unveiling
揭幕战	jie	zhan	(sports) opening game; opening match
揭西县	jie	xian	Jiexi, a county in Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
揭阳市	jie	shi	Jieyang, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
援交妹	yuan	mei	prostitute (slang); see also 援助交際|援助交际[yuan2 zhu4 jiao1 ji4]
援交小姐	yuan	jie	girl who engages in enjo-kōsai; see also 援助交際|援助交际[yuan2 zhu4 jiao1 ji4]
援助之手	yuan	shou	a helping hand
援助交际	yuan	ji	Enjo-kōsai or "compensated dating", a practice which originated in Japan where older men give money or luxury gifts to women for their companionship and sexual favors
援助机构	yuan	gou	relief agency; emergency service; rescue organization
揽辔澄清	lan	qing	to assume one's post with the aspiration of bringing about peace and order to the nation (idiom)
搁脚板	ge	ban	footrest
搅屎棍	jiao	gun	(derog.) shit-stirrer; troublemaker
搅拌机	jiao	ji	blender; food mixer
搅珠机	jiao	ji	lottery machine
搏感情	bo	qing	(Tw) to build up a rapport; to cultivate a warm relationship (from Taiwanese 跋感情, Tai-lo pr. [pua̍h-kám-tsîng])
搓衣板	cuo	ban	washboard
搓麻将	cuo	jiang	to play mahjong
搔头弄姿	sao	zi	see 搔首弄姿[sao1 shou3 nong4 zi1]
搔首弄姿	sao	zi	(idiom) to strike a coquettish pose
搜寻引擎	sou	qing	(Tw, HK) search engine
搜救犬	sou	quan	search and rescue dog
搜查令	sou	ling	search warrant
搜狐网	sou	wang	Sohu, Chinese web portal and online media company
搜神记	sou	ji	In Search of the Supernatural, compilation of legends about spirits, ghosts and other supernatural phenomena, written and compiled by 干寶|干宝[Gan1 Bao3] in Jin dynasty
搜索引擎	sou	qing	search engine
搜索枯肠	sou	chang	to rack one's brains (for apt wording etc) (idiom)
搜索树	sou	shu	(computing) search tree
搜索票	sou	piao	search warrant (Tw)
搜索队	sou	dui	search party
搜肠刮肚	sou	du	to search one's guts and belly (idiom); to racks one's brains for a solution
搞不好	gao	hao	(coll.) maybe; perhaps
搞不懂	gao	dong	unable to make sense of (sth)
搞乌龙	gao	long	to mess sth up
搞笑片	gao	pian	comedy film; comedy; CL:部[bu4]
搞花样	gao	yang	to play tricks; to cheat; to deceive
搞花样儿	gao	r	erhua variant of 搞花樣|搞花样[gao3 hua1 yang4]
搬出去	ban	qu	to move out (vacate); to shift sth out
搬唇递舌	ban	she	to pass on stories (idiom); to sow dissension; to blab; to tell tales
搬弄是非	ban	fei	to incite a quarrel (idiom); to sow discord between people; to tell tales; to make mischief
搬楦头	ban	tou	lit. to move the shoes on the shoe tree (idiom); fig. to expose shameful secrets (old)
搬石头砸自己的脚	ban	jiao	to move a stone and stub one's toe; to shoot oneself in the foot (idiom)
搬砖砸脚	ban	jiao	to hurt oneself by one's own doing; to boomerang; to shoot oneself in the foot (idiom)
搬起石头砸自己的脚	ban	jiao	to crush one's own foot while trying to maneuver a rock (to a cliff edge, to drop on one's enemy) (idiom); hoisted by one's own petard
搬迁户	ban	hu	person or household that has to be relocated (to make way for a construction project etc)
搬运工	ban	gong	porter
搭便车	da	che	to get a lift; to hitch a ride; (fig.) to take advantage of; to free-ride on; to ride on the coattails of
搭把手	da	shou	to help out
搭把手儿	da	r	erhua variant of 搭把手[da1 ba3 shou3]
搭接片	da	pian	buckle; connector; overlapping joint
搭架子	da	zi	to put up scaffolding; to build a framework; to launch an enterprise
搭茬儿	da	r	erhua form of 搭茬[da1 cha2]
搭街坊	da	fang	to become neighbors
携家带口	xie	kou	see 拖家帶口|拖家带口[tuo1 jia1 dai4 kou3]
携家带眷	xie	juan	to take all one's family along (idiom); encumbered by a family; tied down by family obligations
携带者	xie	zhe	(medicine) carrier (of a recessive gene, virus etc)
携手同行	xie	xing	to walk hand in hand; to cooperate
携手并肩	xie	jian	hand in hand and shoulder to shoulder
摁扣儿	en	r	snap fastener; press stud; popper
摁钉儿	en	r	thumbtack
摄像头	she	tou	webcam; surveillance camera
摄像机	she	ji	video camera; CL:部[bu4]
摄入量	she	liang	intake (quantity)
摄影家	she	jia	photographer
摄影师	she	shi	photographer; cinematographer; cameraman
摄影术	she	shu	photography
摄影机	she	ji	(old) camera; movie camera; cine camera
摄影棚	she	peng	film studio; television studio
摄影记者	she	zhe	photojournalist
摄护腺	she	xian	(Tw) prostate gland
摄政王	she	wang	regent
摄氏度	she	du	°C (degrees Celsius)
摆乌龙	bai	long	to mess sth up; to screw up
摆了一道	bai	dao	to play tricks on; to make a fool of
摆事实讲道理	bai	li	present the facts and reason things out
摆地摊	bai	tan	to run a street stall
摆摊子	bai	zi	to set up a stall; (fig.) to maintain a large staff and organization
摆架子	bai	zi	to put on airs; to assume great airs
摆样子	bai	zi	to do sth for show; to keep up appearances
摆渡车	bai	che	shuttle bus; feeder bus
摆花架子	bai	zi	lit. to arrange a shelf of flowers; superficial display (idiom)
摆设儿	bai	r	erhua form of 擺設|摆设[bai3 she5]
摆谱儿	bai	r	erhua variant of 擺譜|摆谱[bai3 pu3]
摆造型	bai	xing	to pose (for a picture)
摆门面	bai	mian	to keep up appearances; to put up a front
摆龙门阵	bai	zhen	(dialect) to chat; to gossip; to spin a yarn
摇头丸	yao	wan	Ecstasy; MDMA
摇头摆尾	yao	wei	to nod one's head and wag one's tail (idiom); to be well pleased with oneself; to have a lighthearted air
摇尾乞怜	yao	lian	lit. to behave like a dog wagging its tail, seeking its master's affection (idiom); fig. to fawn on sb; to bow and scrape
摇摆不定	yao	ding	indecisive; wavering
摇摆乐	yao	yue	swing (genre of jazz music)
摇摆州	yao	zhou	swing state (US politics)
摇摆舞	yao	wu	swing (dance)
摇摇摆摆	yao	bai	swaggering; staggering; waddling
摇摇欲坠	yao	zhui	tottering; on the verge of collapse
摇摇车	yao	che	kiddie ride
摇旗呐喊	yao	han	to wave flags and shout battle cries (idiom); to egg sb on; to give support to
摇曳多姿	yao	zi	swaying gently; moving elegantly
摇橹船	yao	chuan	boat propelled by a yuloh (a single sculling oar)
摇滚乐	yao	yue	rock music; rock 'n roll
摇电话	yao	hua	(old) to make a phone call
摇笔杆	yao	gan	to write for a living
摇篮曲	yao	qu	lullaby
摇粒绒	yao	rong	(textiles) polar fleece
摇身一变	yao	bian	to change shape in a single shake; fig. to take on a new lease of life
摇钱树	yao	shu	legendary tree that sheds coins when shaken; (fig.) source of easy money
摊事儿	tan	r	(coll.) to get into trouble
摊薄后每股盈利	tan	li	diluted earnings per share
摊鸡蛋	tan	dan	omelet; to make an omelet
摊黄菜	tan	cai	(dialect) scrambled eggs
摔跟头	shuai	tou	to fall; fig. to suffer a setback
摘帽子	zhai	zi	lit. to take off a hat; fig. to be cleared of an unfair charge; rehabilitation
摘桃子	zhai	zi	to harvest the fruits of sb else's labor
摩加迪休	mo	xiu	Mogadishu, capital of Somalia (Tw)
摩加迪沙	mo	sha	Mogadishu, Indian ocean seaport and capital of Somalia
摩卡咖啡	mo	fei	mocha coffee
摩天大厦	mo	sha	skyscraper; CL:座[zuo4]
摩天大楼	mo	lou	skyscraper; CL:座[zuo4]
摩天楼	mo	lou	skyscraper; CL:座[zuo4]
摩天轮	mo	lun	Ferris wheel; observation wheel
摩尔人	mo	ren	a Moor
摩尔多瓦	mo	wa	Moldova
摩尔多瓦人	mo	ren	Moldovan (person)
摩尔定律	mo	lv	(computing) Moore's law
摩尔斯电码	mo	ma	Morse code
摩尔根	mo	gen	Morgan (name)
摩尔门	mo	men	Mormon (religion)
摩尔门经	mo	jing	Book of Mormon
摩尼教	mo	jiao	Manichaeism
摩德纳	mo	na	Modena, Italy
摩托罗拉	mo	la	Motorola
摩托艇	mo	ting	motorboat
摩托车	mo	che	(loanword) motorbike; motorcycle; CL:輛|辆[liang4],部[bu4]
摩托车的士	mo	shi	motorcycle taxi
摩拳擦掌	mo	zhang	fig. to rub one's fists and wipe one's palms (idiom); to roll up one's sleeves for battle; eager to get into action or start on a task
摩揭陀	mo	tuo	Magadha, ancient India kingdom reported to be the birthplace of Buddhism
摩擦力	mo	li	friction
摩擦音	mo	yin	fricative (phonetics)
摩斯密码	mo	ma	Morse code
摩斯拉	mo	la	Mothra (Japanese モスラ Mosura), Japanese movie monster
摩斯电码	mo	ma	Morse code
摩根士丹利	mo	li	Morgan Stanley (financial services company)
摩梭族	mo	zu	Mosuo ethnic group of Yunnan and Sichuan
摩洛哥	mo	ge	Morocco
摩登原始人	mo	ren	The Flintstones (TV Series)
摩睺罗伽	mo	jia	Mahoraga, snake's headed Indian deity; a protector deity of Buddhist law
摩纳哥	mo	ge	Monaco
摩羯座	mo	zuo	Capricornus
摩肩接踵	mo	zhong	lit. rubbing shoulders and following in each other's footsteps; a thronging crowd
摩苏尔	mo	er	Mosul (city in Iraq)
摩萨德	mo	de	Mossad
摩西五经	mo	jing	the Pentateuch; the five books of Moses in the Old Testament
摩西律法	mo	fa	law of Moses
摩西的律法	mo	fa	Mosaic Law
摩诃婆罗多	mo	duo	Mahābhārata, second great Indian epic after 羅摩衍那|罗摩衍那[Luo2 mo2 yan3 na4], possibly originally c. 4th century BC
摩门经	mo	jing	Book of Mormon
摩顶放踵	mo	zhong	to rub one's head and heels (idiom); to slave for the benefit of others; to wear oneself out for the general good
摩鹿加群岛	mo	dao	Maluku Islands, Indonesia
摸不着	mo	zhao	can't touch; can't reach; (fig.) unable to get a grasp of
摸不着头脑	mo	nao	to be unable to make any sense of the matter; to be at a loss
摸不着边	mo	bian	can't make head or tail of
摸八圈	mo	quan	to play mahjong
摸得着	mo	zhao	to be able to touch; tangible
摸爬滚打	mo	da	to go through challenging experiences; to become seasoned (in one's profession etc)
摸着石头过河	mo	he	to wade across the river, feeling for footholds as one goes (idiom); to advance cautiously, step by step; to feel one's way forward
摸金校尉	mo	wei	(idiom) military title said to have existed in the Han dynasty, allegedly granted to officials tasked with retrieving gold from tombs to fund military campaigns; (in popular fiction) tomb raider
摹声词	mo	ci	(linguistics) onomatopoeic word
撂地摊	liao	tan	see 撂地[liao4 di4]
撂挑子	liao	zi	(coll.) to quit one's job in disgust
撇大条	pie	tiao	(slang) to take a dump
撑场面	cheng	mian	to keep up appearances; to put up a front
撑杆跳	cheng	tiao	variant of 撐竿跳|撑竿跳[cheng1 gan1 tiao4]
撑杆跳高	cheng	gao	variant of 撐竿跳高|撑竿跳高[cheng1 gan1 tiao4 gao1]
撑竿跳	cheng	tiao	pole vault
撑竿跳高	cheng	gao	pole vault
撑门面	cheng	mian	to keep up appearances; to put up a front
撒丁岛	sa	dao	Sardinia
撒丫子	sa	zi	(dialect) to scamper off; to take to one's heels; to make oneself scarce
撒克逊	sa	xun	Saxon (people)
撒克逊人	sa	ren	Saxon (people)
撒切尔	sa	er	Thatcher (name); Baroness Thatcher or Margaret Thatcher (1925-2013), British conservative politician, prime minister 1979-1990
撒切尔夫人	sa	ren	Mrs Thatcher; Baroness Thatcher or Margaret Thatcher (1925-2013), British conservative politician, prime minister 1979-1990
撒呓挣	sa	zheng	(coll.) to talk in one's sleep; to sleepwalk
撒哈拉	sa	la	Sahara
撒哈拉人	sa	ren	Sahrawi (person)
撒哈拉以南	sa	nan	sub-Saharan
撒哈拉以南非洲	sa	zhou	sub-Saharan Africa
撒哈拉威	sa	wei	Sahrawi
撒哈拉沙漠	sa	mo	Sahara Desert
撒娇卖乖	sa	guai	to behave ingratiatingly
撒尔孟	sa	meng	(Catholicism) Salmon (son of Nashon)
撒手不管	sa	guan	to stand aside and do nothing (idiom); to take no part in
撒手人寰	sa	huan	to leave one's mortal frame (idiom); to die
撒手锏	sa	jian	(fig.) trump card
撒手闭眼	sa	yan	to have nothing further to do with a matter (idiom)
撒拉族	sa	zu	Salar ethnic group
撒拉语	sa	yu	Salar, language of Salar ethnic group of Qinghai province
撒拉铁	sa	tie	Shealtiel (son of Jeconiah)
撒欢儿	sa	r	erhua form of 撒歡|撒欢[sa1 huan1]
撒母耳记上	sa	shang	First book of Samuel
撒母耳记下	sa	xia	Second book of Samuel
撒狗粮	sa	liang	(slang) to be lovey-dovey in public
撒科打诨	sa	hun	to intersperse comic dialogue (as they do in operas)
撒罗满	sa	man	(Catholicism) Solomon, a king of ancient Israel
撒西米	sa	mi	sashimi (loanword)
撒迦利亚	sa	ya	Zechariah (name); Zechariah (Old Testament prophet)
撒迦利亚书	sa	shu	Book of Zechariah
撒都该人	sa	ren	Sadducees
撒酒疯	sa	feng	to get drunk and act crazy; roaring drunk
撒马利亚	sa	ya	Samaria
撒马尔干	sa	gan	Samarkand, Uzbekistan
撒马尔罕	sa	han	Samarkand, Uzbekistan
撒鸭子	sa	zi	variant of 撒丫子[sa1 ya1 zi5]
撕心裂肺	si	fei	in unbearable anguish; agonizing
撕破脸	si	lian	to have an acrimonious falling-out; to shed all pretense of cordiality; to tear into each other
撕破脸皮	si	pi	see 撕破臉|撕破脸[si1 po4 lian3]
撞击坑	zhuang	keng	impact crater
撞击式印表机	zhuang	ji	impact printer
撞击式打印机	zhuang	ji	(computing) impact printer
撞大运	zhuang	yun	to have a lucky stroke; to try one's luck
撞运气	zhuang	qi	to try one's luck; to rely on fate
撩是生非	liao	fei	to stir up trouble; to provoke angry exchange
播州区	bo	qu	Bozhou, a district of Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
播报员	bo	yuan	announcer
播放列表	bo	biao	playlist
播放机	bo	ji	player (e.g. CD player)
播音员	bo	yuan	announcer; broadcaster
撰稿人	zhuan	ren	author (of a manuscript)
撼天动地	han	di	earth-shaking
撼树蚍蜉	han	fu	see 蚍蜉撼樹|蚍蜉撼树[pi2 fu2 han4 shu4]
擀面杖	gan	zhang	rolling pin
擂台赛	lei	sai	single-elimination open tournament (the winner stays on until he is himself defeated)
擂鼓鸣金	lei	jin	to beat the drum and sound the gong (idiom); fig. to order an advance or retreat; to egg people on or to call them back
擅离职守	shan	shou	to abscond; to be absent without leave
操之过急	cao	ji	to act with undue haste (idiom); eager and impatient; overhasty
操作台	cao	tai	operating desk; control panel; console
操作员	cao	yuan	operator
操作数	cao	shu	operand (computing)
操作环境	cao	jing	operating environment
操作符	cao	fu	operator (computing)
操作系统	cao	tong	operating system
操作者	cao	zhe	operator
操作规程	cao	cheng	operating rules; work regulations
操你妈	cao	ma	variant of 肏你媽|肏你妈[cao4 ni3 ma1]
操刀手	cao	shou	person charged with decisive action; hatchet man
操斧伐柯	cao	ke	(cf Book of Songs) How to fashion an ax handle? You need an ax; fig. to follow a principle; fig. to act as matchmaker
操盘手	cao	shou	heavyweight operator in a market
操纵杆	cao	gan	joystick; control lever
操纵自如	cao	ru	to operate (a machine etc) with ease
操舵室	cao	shi	pilothouse
擎拳合掌	qing	zhang	to clasp hands; to put one's palms together (in obeisance)
擒人节	qin	jie	(jocular) Valentine's Day, referring to the rising number of extramarrital affairs being discovered on that day
擒贼擒王	qin	wang	(idiom) to defeat the enemy by capturing their leader
擢发难数	zhuo	shu	lit. as difficult to count as hair pulled from sb's head (idiom); fig. innumerable (crimes)
擤鼻涕	xing	ti	to blow one's nose
擦亮眼睛	ca	jing	to keep one's eyes open (idiom); to be on one's guard; to be clear-eyed
擦屁股	ca	gu	to wipe one’s ass; (fig.) (coll.) to clean up sb else's mess
擦擦笔	ca	bi	erasable pen
擦枪走火	ca	huo	to shoot accidentally while polishing a gun; (fig.) a minor incident that sparks a war
擦棒球	ca	qiu	foul tip
擦碗布	ca	bu	dish cloth; tea towel
擦网球	ca	qiu	net ball; let (tennis etc)
擦肩而过	ca	guo	to brush past; to pass by (sb); (fig.) to miss (an opportunity, a danger etc); to have a brush (with death)
擦腚纸	ca	zhi	toilet paper
擦身而过	ca	guo	to brush past
擦边球	ca	qiu	(table tennis) edge ball; (fig.) actions that are technically legal but perhaps not respectable
擦鞋垫	ca	dian	doormat
擦黑儿	ca	r	(dialect) dusk
攀亲道故	pan	gu	(idiom) to use claims to kinship or friendship to climb socially
攀山家	pan	jia	mountaineer (HK)
攀枝花	pan	hua	see 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4]
攀枝花市	pan	shi	Panzhihua, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
攀附权贵	pan	gui	to cling to the powerful and rich (idiom); social climbing
攀高枝	pan	zhi	(coll.) to try to improve one's social standing by marrying or affiliating with people of higher status
攀高枝儿	pan	r	erhua form of 攀高枝[pan1 gao1 zhi1]
攀高结贵	pan	gui	lit. to cling to the high, connect to the rich (idiom); to try to attach oneself to the rich and powerful; social climbing
攀龙附凤	pan	feng	see 扳龍附鳳|扳龙附凤[ban1 long2 fu4 feng4]
攉煤机	huo	ji	coal-shovel machine
攘外安内	rang	nei	to resist foreign aggression and pacify the interior of the country (idiom)
攘攘熙熙	rang	xi	see 熙熙攘攘[xi1 xi1 rang3 rang3]
攥拳头	zuan	tou	to clench one's fists
支与流裔	zhi	yi	lit. branches and descendants; of a similar kind; related
支付不起	zhi	qi	to be unable to pay; unaffordable
支付宝	zhi	bao	Alipay, online payment platform
支公司	zhi	si	subsidiary; branch
支努干	zhi	gan	Chinook (helicopter)
支原体	zhi	ti	Mycoplasma (parasitic bacteria without cell wall)
支原体肺炎	zhi	yan	Mycoplasma pneumonia
支吾其词	zhi	ci	(idiom) to talk in a roundabout way to cover up the truth; evasive
支承销	zhi	xiao	fulcrum pin
支持度	zhi	du	level of support
支持率	zhi	lv	support level; popularity rating
支持者	zhi	zhe	supporter
支撑架	zhi	jia	bracket
支支吾吾	zhi	wu	to hem and haw; to stall; to stammer
支柱产业	zhi	ye	mainstay industry
支气管	zhi	guan	bronchial tube; bronchus
支气管炎	zhi	yan	bronchitis
支票簿	zhi	bu	checkbook (banking)
支离破碎	zhi	sui	scattered and smashed (idiom)
支系统	zhi	tong	subsystem
支配力	zhi	li	power or force to dominate
支配权	zhi	quan	authority to dispose of sth
收之桑榆	shou	yu	see 失之東隅，收之桑榆|失之东隅，收之桑榆[shi1 zhi1 dong1 yu2 , shou1 zhi1 sang1 yu2]
收件人	shou	ren	recipient (of mail); To: (email header)
收件匣	shou	xia	inbox (email)
收件箱	shou	xiang	inbox
收割机	shou	ji	harvester (machine)
收割者	shou	zhe	reaper
收发室	shou	shi	mail room; radio room (i.e. reception and transmission)
收复失地	shou	di	to recover lost territory
收存箱	shou	xiang	delivery box; drop box
收容人	shou	ren	inmate
收容所	shou	suo	temporary shelter; hospice; refuge (e.g. for animals)
收容教育	shou	yu	custody and reeducation (administrative punishment for prostitutes)
收尾音	shou	yin	the final of a Korean syllable (consonant or consonant cluster at the end of the syllable)
收山之作	shou	zuo	the final work in the career of a composer, film director or architect etc
收废站	shou	zhan	garbage collection point; trash dump
收录机	shou	ji	radio-tape recorder
收报人	shou	ren	recipient (of mail or a message)
收报员	shou	yuan	telegraph operator
收报室	shou	shi	mail room; radio reception room
收报机	shou	ji	telegraph receiver
收拢人心	shou	xin	to win people's hearts
收拾残局	shou	ju	to clear up the mess; to pick up the pieces
收支平衡点	shou	dian	break-even point
收支相抵	shou	di	to break even; balance between income and expenditure
收敛序列	shou	lie	convergent sequence (math.)
收敛性	shou	xing	convergence (math.); astringent
收敛级数	shou	shu	convergent series (math.)
收敛锋芒	shou	mang	to draw in one's claws; to show some modesty
收旗卷伞	shou	san	(lit.) to furl up flags and umbrellas (idiom); (fig.) to stop what one is doing
收款台	shou	tai	checkout counter; cashier's desk
收残缀轶	shou	yi	to gather and patch up sth that is badly damaged (idiom)
收生婆	shou	po	midwife
收留所	shou	suo	shelter; refuge
收益帐户	shou	hu	income account (accountancy)
收益率	shou	lv	earnings rate; earnings yield (finance)
收盘价	shou	jia	closing price (of share, commodity etc)
收票员	shou	yuan	ticket collector
收缩压	shou	ya	systolic blood pressure
收获节	shou	jie	harvest festival
收藏夹	shou	jia	favorites folder (web browser)
收藏家	shou	jia	a collector (e.g. of artworks)
收视率	shou	lv	ratings (of a TV show)
收货人	shou	ren	consignee
收购要约	shou	yue	takeover bid
收费站	shou	zhan	tollbooth
收银台	shou	tai	checkout counter; cashier's desk
收银员	shou	yuan	cashier; checkout clerk
收银机	shou	ji	cash register; check out counter
收音机	shou	ji	radio; CL:臺|台[tai2]
改则县	gai	xian	Gertse, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
改口费	gai	fei	a gift of money given by parents on both sides after a wedding, to their new daughter-in-law or son-in-law
改头换面	gai	mian	to change outwardly while remaining essentially the same (derog.) (idiom); (Tw) (non-derogatory) to change considerably; to undergo a transformation
改弦易辙	gai	zhe	change of string, move out of rut (idiom); dramatic change of direction; to dance to a different tune
改恶向善	gai	shan	turn away from evil and follow virtue
改换门庭	gai	ting	to improve one's family's social status by moving up in the world; to switch one's allegiance to a new patron
改换门闾	gai	lv	see 改換門庭|改换门庭[gai3 huan4 men2 ting2]
改朝换代	gai	dai	to transition to a new dynasty or regime
改良主义	gai	yi	reformism (i.e. favoring gradual change as opposed to revolution)
改订伊犁条约	gai	yue	Treaty of Saint Petersburg of 1881 in which Russia agreed to hand back Yili province to Qing China in exchange for compensation payment and unequal treaty rights
改过自新	gai	xin	to reform and start afresh (idiom); to turn over a new leaf
改邪归正	gai	zheng	to mend one's ways (idiom); to turn over a new leaf
改革家	gai	jia	reformer
改革开放	gai	fang	reform and opening up (Chinese policy introduced in 1978)
改革派	gai	pai	the reformist party
改革者	gai	zhe	reformer
攻其不备	gong	bei	see 出其不意，攻其不備|出其不意，攻其不备[chu1 qi2 bu4 yi4 , gong1 qi2 bu4 bei4]
攻其无备	gong	bei	see 出其不意，攻其不備|出其不意，攻其不备[chu1 qi2 bu4 yi4 , gong1 qi2 bu4 bei4]
攻击力	gong	li	potential for attack; firepower
攻击机	gong	ji	ground attack aircraft
攻击线	gong	xian	the front line; the attack (e.g. football forwards)
攻坚克难	gong	nan	to tackle a thorny problem and overcome its challenges
攻城木	gong	mu	battering ram
攻城略地	gong	di	to take cities and seize territories (idiom)
攻无不克战无不胜	gong	sheng	to triumph in every battle and win every fight (idiom); all-conquering; ever victorious; nothing they can't do
放一马	fang	ma	to let (sb) off; to let (sb) get away with sth
放下包袱	fang	fu	to lay down a heavy burden
放下屠刀立地成佛	fang	fo	lay down butcher's knife, become a Buddha on the spot (idiom); instant rehabilitation; to repent and be absolved of one's crimes
放下身段	fang	duan	to get off one's high horse; to dispense with posturing (and adopt a more humble or empathetic attitude)
放不下	fang	xia	to have no room to put sth; to be unable to let go
放不下心	fang	xin	cannot stop worrying
放之四海而皆准	fang	zhun	applicable anywhere (idiom)
放任政策	fang	ce	laissez-faire policy; non-interference
放任自流	fang	liu	to let sb do whatever they want; to indulge; to give free reins to
放卫星	fang	xing	to launch a satellite; (fig.) (neologism during the Great Leap Forward, c. 1958) to achieve prominent success; (later used sarcastically) to make exaggerated claims
放在心上	fang	shang	to care about; to take seriously; to take to heart
放在眼里	fang	li	to pay attention to; to care about; to attach importance to
放声大哭	fang	ku	to sob loudly; to bawl
放大倍数	fang	shu	magnifying power; magnification
放大器	fang	qi	amplifier
放大炮	fang	pao	to talk big; to shoot one's mouth off
放大片	fang	pian	(Tw) cosmetic contact lens; big eye contact lens; circle contact lens
放大纸	fang	zhi	enlarging paper (photography); bromide paper
放大镜	fang	jing	magnifying glass
放射免疫测定	fang	ding	radioimmunoassay
放射学	fang	xue	radiology
放射性	fang	xing	radioactive
放射性同位素	fang	su	radioactive isotope; radioisotope
放射性废物	fang	wu	radioactive waste
放射性材料	fang	liao	radioactive material
放射性核素	fang	su	radioactive nuclide; radionuclide
放射性武器	fang	qi	radiological weapon
放射性污染	fang	ran	radioactive contamination
放射性沾染	fang	ran	radioactive contamination
放射性活度	fang	du	radioactivity
放射性烟羽	fang	yu	radiation plume
放射性碘	fang	dian	radioactive iodine
放射性落下灰	fang	hui	radioactive fallout
放射性衰变	fang	bian	radioactive decay
放射治疗	fang	liao	radiotherapy
放射源	fang	yuan	radiation source
放射物	fang	wu	radioactive material
放射疗法	fang	fa	radiotherapy
放射病	fang	bing	radiation sickness
放射线	fang	xian	radiation; rays of radiation
放射虫	fang	chong	radiolarian (single-celled animal)
放射防护	fang	hu	radiological defense
放屁虫	fang	chong	stinkbug
放山鸡	fang	ji	free-range chicken
放开手脚	fang	jiao	to have free rein (idiom)
放得下	fang	xia	to be able to put (sth) down; to have room for; to be able to accommodate
放情丘壑	fang	he	to enjoy oneself in nature's embrace (idiom)
放慢脚步	fang	bu	to ease up the pace; to slow things down
放慢速度	fang	du	to ease up the pace; to slow things down
放手一搏	fang	bo	to put one's all into the fight
放映室	fang	shi	cinema room; viewing room
放映机	fang	ji	projector
放暑假	fang	jia	to be on summer vacation
放水屁	fang	pi	(coll.) to shart
放浪不羁	fang	ji	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放浪形骸	fang	hai	to abandon all restraint (idiom)
放烟幕弹	fang	dan	to spread a smokescreen
放热反应	fang	ying	exothermic reaction
放焰口	fang	kou	to feed the starving ghosts (i.e. offer sacrifice to protect the departed spirit)
放爆竹	fang	zhu	to set off firecrackers
放牛班	fang	ban	class of underachievers; dunces' class (Tw)
放眼望去	fang	qu	as far as the eye can see
放着明白装糊涂	fang	tu	to pretend not to know (idiom)
放空挡	fang	dang	to coast along in neutral gear (in a car); (coll.) to go commando
放空炮	fang	pao	(lit.) to fire blank shots; (fig.) to be all talk and no action; to shoot one's mouth off
放线菌	fang	jun	actinomycete (bacteria of order Actinomycetales)
放羊娃	fang	wa	shepherd; shepherd boy
放荡不羁	fang	ji	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放诞不拘	fang	ju	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放诞不羁	fang	ji	wanton and unrestrained (idiom); dissolute
放长线钓大鱼	fang	yu	use a long line to catch a big fish (idiom); a long-term plan for major returns
放鞭炮	fang	pao	to set off firecrackers
放风筝	fang	zheng	to fly a kite
放飞机	fang	ji	(coll.) to stand sb up; to fail to honor an agreement
放马后炮	fang	pao	to fire after the horse has bolted (idiom); to act too late to be effective
放马过来	fang	lai	bring it on!; give me all you got!
放鸽子	fang	zi	to stand sb up; to bail on sb
政和县	zheng	xian	Zhenghe, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
政府债券	zheng	quan	government bonds (investments)
政府军	zheng	jun	government army
政府大学院	zheng	yuan	the name of Academia Sinica 中央研究院[Zhong1 yang1 Yan2 jiu1 yuan4] when it was founded
政府官员	zheng	yuan	government employee
政府新闻处	zheng	chu	information services department
政府机关	zheng	guan	government (viewed as an organization); institutions of government; government office
政府首脑	zheng	nao	head of state; government leader
政教合一	zheng	yi	union of religious and political rule; theocracy; Caesaropapism
政教处	zheng	chu	political education office (within a school) (PRC)
政权真空	zheng	kong	power vacuum; political vacuum
政治人物	zheng	wu	political figure; politician; statesman
政治体制	zheng	zhi	form of government
政治关系	zheng	xi	political relations
政治化	zheng	hua	to politicize
政治史	zheng	shi	political history
政治委员	zheng	yuan	political commissar (during Russian and Chinese communist revolutions)
政治学	zheng	xue	politics; political science
政治家	zheng	jia	statesman; politician; CL:個|个[ge4],位[wei4],名[ming2]
政治局	zheng	ju	politburo
政治局面	zheng	mian	political climate
政治庇护	zheng	hu	political asylum
政治异议人士	zheng	shi	political dissident
政治思想	zheng	xiang	political thought; ideology
政治性	zheng	xing	political
政治改革	zheng	ge	political reform
政治机构	zheng	gou	political organization
政治正确	zheng	que	political correctness; politically correct
政治气候	zheng	hou	political climate
政治犯	zheng	fan	political prisoner
政治献金	zheng	jin	political donation
政治生活	zheng	huo	political life
政治立场	zheng	chang	political position
政治经济学	zheng	xue	political economy
政治舞台	zheng	tai	political arena
政治运动	zheng	dong	political movement
政治避难	zheng	nan	political asylum
政治部	zheng	bu	political division; cadre department
政法委	zheng	wei	Political and Legal Affairs Commission (may refer to the national-level Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission, responsible for overseeing law enforcement, judicial affairs and domestic security, or a corresponding body at a lower administrative level)
政训处	zheng	chu	political training office (during Chinese revolution, since renamed political division 政治部)
政通人和	zheng	he	efficient government, people at peace (idiom); all is well with the state and the people
故事片	gu	pian	fictional film; feature film
故事线	gu	xian	storyline; plotline
故伎重演	gu	yan	to repeat an old stratagem; up to one's old tricks
故作姿态	gu	tai	to put on an act
故作深沉	gu	chen	to play the profound thinker
故作端庄	gu	zhuang	artificial show of seriousness; to pretend to be solemn
故地重游	gu	you	see 舊地重遊|旧地重游[jiu4 di4 chong2 you2]
故城县	gu	xian	Gucheng, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
故宫博物院	gu	yuan	Palace Museum, in the Forbidden City, Beijing; National Palace Museum, Taipei
故家子弟	gu	di	descended from an old family
故弄玄虚	gu	xu	deliberately mystifying; to make sth unnecessarily complicated
故态复萌	gu	meng	to revert to old ways
故旧不弃	gu	qi	do not neglect old friends
故步自封	gu	feng	stuck in the old ways (idiom); refusing to acknowledge new ideas; stagnating and conservative
故纸堆	gu	dui	a pile of old books
效价能	xiao	neng	potency; titer (measure of effective concentration in virology or chemical pathology, defined in terms of potency after dilution by titration)
效果图	xiao	tu	rendering (visual representation of how things will turn out)
效犬马之劳	xiao	lao	to render one's humble services; to be at sb's beck and call
敌众我寡	di	gua	multitude of enemies, few friends (idiom from Mencius); heavily outnumbered; beaten by the weight of numbers
敌占区	di	qu	enemy occupied territory
敌基督	di	du	Antichrist
敌对性	di	xing	hostility; antagonism; adversarial; hostile
敌我矛盾	di	dun	contradictions between ourselves and the enemy; Either you are for us or against us.
敌敌畏	di	wei	(loanword) DDVP, aka dichlorvos (an organophosphate used as an insecticide)
敌杀死	di	si	Decis (insecticide brand)
敌特分子	di	zi	enemy agent; spy (esp. from a hostile foreign power)
敌百虫	di	chong	trichlorfon (C4H8Cl3O4P), organophosphate insecticide; also called dipterex
敏感性	min	xing	sensitive; sensitivity
救世主	jiu	zhu	the Savior (in Christianity)
救世军	jiu	jun	Salvation Army (protestant philanthropic organization founded in London in 1865)
救命稻草	jiu	cao	(one's) last straw to clutch at; one's last hope
救场如救火	jiu	huo	the show must go on (idiom)
救急不救穷	jiu	qiong	help the starving but not the poor (idiom)
救恩计划	jiu	hua	plan of salvation
救护人员	jiu	yuan	rescue worker
救护车	jiu	che	ambulance; CL:輛|辆[liang4]
救捞局	jiu	ju	sea rescue service; lifeboat service
救援队	jiu	dui	rescue team
救死扶伤	jiu	shang	to help the dying and heal the injured
救济粮	jiu	liang	relief grain; emergency provisions
救灾款	jiu	kuan	disaster relief funds
救生员	jiu	yuan	lifeguard
救生圈	jiu	quan	life buoy; life belt; (jocular) flab; spare tire
救生筏	jiu	fa	a life raft
救生船	jiu	chuan	lifeboat
救生艇	jiu	ting	lifeboat
救生艇甲板	jiu	ban	boat deck (deck where lifeboats are stored)
救生衣	jiu	yi	life jacket; life vest
救生队	jiu	dui	rescue team; CL:支[zhi1]
救赎主	jiu	zhu	Redeemer
敖德萨	ao	sa	Odessa (city in Ukraine)
敖汉旗	ao	qi	Aohan banner or Aokhan khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
敖贝得	ao	de	Obed (name)
教义和圣约	jiao	yue	Doctrine and Covenants
教书匠	jiao	jiang	teacher (usually humorous, self-deprecating or derogatory)
教务室	jiao	shi	school administration office
教务长	jiao	zhang	provost
教友大会	jiao	hui	church conference
教友派	jiao	pai	the Society of Friends; the Quakers
教堂墓地	jiao	di	churchyard
教堂山	jiao	shan	Chapel Hill, North Carolina
教学大纲	jiao	gang	course syllabus; class curriculum
教学机构	jiao	gou	educational organization
教学楼	jiao	lou	school building; academic building
教学法	jiao	fa	teaching method; pedagogy
教学相长	jiao	zhang	when you teach someone, both teacher and student will benefit
教学软体	jiao	ti	(Tw) educational software; courseware
教宗座驾	jiao	jia	popemobile
教师爷	jiao	ye	master of martial arts, in former times often employed by a landlord to teach fighting skills and guard the house; (fig.) sb who arrogantly and condescendingly lectures others
教师节	jiao	jie	Teachers' Day (September 10th in PRC and Confucius's birthday, September 28th in Taiwan)
教廷大使	jiao	shi	an ambassador of the church; an Apostolic Nuncio (from the Vatican)
教条主义	jiao	yi	dogmatism
教研室	jiao	shi	teaching and research office
教科书	jiao	shu	textbook; CL:本[ben3]
教科书式	jiao	shi	(neologism c. 2018) worthy of being used as a textbook example; exemplary; classic
教科文组织	jiao	zhi	UNESCO, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
教练员	jiao	yuan	sports coach; training personnel
教练机	jiao	ji	trainer (aircraft)
教职员	jiao	yuan	teaching and administrative staff
教职员工	jiao	gong	teaching and administrative staff
教职工	jiao	gong	teaching and administrative staff
教育厅	jiao	ting	(provincial) department of education
教育委员会	jiao	hui	school board
教育学	jiao	xue	pedagogy
教育家	jiao	jia	educationalist
教育工作者	jiao	zhe	educator
教育性	jiao	xing	instructive; educational
教育电视	jiao	shi	Educational Television (Hong Kong)
教育界	jiao	jie	academic world; academic circles; academia
教育背景	jiao	jing	educational background
教育部	jiao	bu	Ministry of Education
教育部长	jiao	zhang	Minister of Education; Director of Education Department
敝屣尊荣	bi	rong	to care nothing for worldly fame and glory (idiom)
敝帚千金	bi	jin	lit. my worn-out broom, a thousand in gold (idiom); fig. sentimental value; I wouldn't be parted with it for anything.
敝帚自珍	bi	zhen	to value the broom as one's own (idiom); to attach value to sth because it is one's own; a sentimental attachment
敞开儿	chang	r	unrestrictedly
敞篷汽车	chang	che	convertible (car)
敞篷车	chang	che	a convertible; open-top car
敢为人先	gan	xian	to dare to be first; to pioneer (idiom)
敢作敢为	gan	wei	(idiom) to stop at nothing; to dare to do anything
敢作敢当	gan	dang	variant of 敢做敢當|敢做敢当[gan3 zuo4 gan3 dang1]
敢做敢当	gan	dang	daring to act and courageous enough to take responsibility for it; a true man has the courage to accept the consequences of his actions; the buck stops here
敢怒而不敢言	gan	yan	angry, but not daring to speak out (idiom); obliged to remain silent about one's resentment; unable to voice objections
敢打敢冲	gan	chong	courageous and daring
敢死队	gan	dui	suicide squad; kamikaze unit
散伙饭	san	fan	meal shared before a group goes its separate ways; farewell meal
散兵坑	san	keng	foxhole (military)
散兵游勇	san	yong	lit. straggling and disbanded soldiers (idiom); fig. disorganized uncoordinated action
散座儿	san	r	erhua variant of 散座[san3 zuo4]; single seat (in theater); irregular passenger (in rickshaw)
散弹枪	san	qiang	shotgun
散心解闷	san	men	to divert one's mind from boredom (idiom)
散摊子	san	zi	to break up; to disband
散文诗	san	shi	prose poem
散点图	san	tu	scatter plot
散热器	san	qi	radiator (for heating a room); radiator (for cooling an engine)
散热片	san	pian	heat sink
散热膏	san	gao	thermal grease
散腿裤	san	ku	loose-fitting pants; Chinese-style pants
散逸层	san	ceng	exosphere
敦刻尔克	dun	ke	Dunkirk, port in northern France
敦化市	dun	shi	Dunhua, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
敦煌市	dun	shi	Dunhuang, a county-level city in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
敦煌石窟	dun	ku	Dunhuang caves in Gansu; refers to Mogao caves 莫高石窟[Mo4 gao1 shi2 ku1]
敬业乐群	jing	qun	diligent and sociable (idiom); meticulous in work and dealing cheerfully with one's colleagues
敬启者	jing	zhe	Dear Sirs; To Whom It May Concern
敬惜字纸	jing	zhi	to treasure written material as a cultural resource (idiom)
敬老尊贤	jing	xian	to respect the wise and venerate the worthy (idiom); to honor the great and the good
敬老席	jing	xi	priority seating for the aged (on buses etc)
敬老院	jing	yuan	senior citizens' home; old folks' home
敬而远之	jing	zhi	to show respect from a distance (idiom); to remain at a respectful distance
敬若神明	jing	ming	to hold sb in the same regard as one would a god (idiom)
敬谢不敏	jing	min	please excuse me for not complying; to politely decline
敬贤礼士	jing	shi	(idiom) to respect people of virtue and show courtesy to scholars
敬酒不吃吃罚酒	jing	jiu	lit. to refuse a toast only to be forced to drink a forfeit (idiom); fig. to turn down a request only to be forced later to comply with it under pressure
敬鬼神而远之	jing	zhi	to respect Gods and demons from a distance (idiom); to remain at a respectful distance
数一数二	shu	er	(idiom) reckoned to be best or second best; one of the very best; (idiom) to list one by one
数不上	shu	shang	not to deserve to be mentioned; not to qualify; below par
数不尽	shu	jin	countless
数不清	shu	qing	countless; innumerable
数不着	shu	zhao	see 數不上|数不上[shu3 bu4 shang4]
数不胜数	shu	shu	(idiom) too many to count; innumerable
数不过来	shu	lai	can't manage to count; too many to count
数九天	shu	tian	nine periods of nine days each after winter solstice, the coldest time of the year
数九寒天	shu	tian	nine periods of nine days each after winter solstice, the coldest time of the year
数以万计	shu	ji	tens of thousands; numerous
数以亿计	shu	ji	countless; innumerable
数以千计	shu	ji	thousands (of sth)
数以百计	shu	ji	hundreds of
数位信号	shu	hao	digital signal
数位化	shu	hua	(Tw) to digitize
数位网路	shu	lu	digital network
数位货币	shu	bi	digital currency (Tw)
数值分析	shu	xi	numerical analysis (math.)
数值解	shu	jie	numerical solution
数典忘祖	shu	zu	to recount history but omit one's ancestors (idiom); to forget one's roots
数十亿	shu	yi	several billion
数字信号	shu	hao	digital signal
数字分频	shu	pin	digital frequency sharing
数字化	shu	hua	to digitize
数字命理学	shu	xue	numerology
数字孪生	shu	sheng	digital twin
数字时钟	shu	zhong	digital clock
数字游民	shu	min	digital nomad
数字版权管理	shu	li	Digital Rights Management (DRM)
数字用户线路	shu	lu	digital subscriber line (DSL)
数字电视	shu	shi	digital television
数字电路	shu	lu	digital circuit
数字网	shu	wang	digital network
数字货币	shu	bi	digital currency
数字通信	shu	xin	digital communications
数字钟	shu	zhong	digital clock
数学公式	shu	shi	formula
数学分析	shu	xi	analysis (branch of mathematics)
数学家	shu	jia	mathematician
数学模型	shu	xing	mathematical model
数学物理	shu	li	mathematical physics
数学物理学	shu	xue	mathematical physics
数小时	shu	shi	several hours
数得上	shu	shang	to be considered as outstanding or special; to be reckoned with; notable
数得着	shu	zhao	to be considered outstanding or special; to be reckoned with; notable
数据中心	shu	xin	(computing) data center
数据介面	shu	mian	data interface
数据传输	shu	shu	data transmission
数据压缩	shu	suo	data compression
数据处理	shu	li	data processing
数据库	shu	ku	(computing) database
数据库软件	shu	jian	database software
数据总线	shu	xian	data bus (computer)
数据手册	shu	ce	datasheet
数据挖掘	shu	jue	data mining
数据接口	shu	kou	data interface
数据机	shu	ji	modem (Tw)
数据段	shu	duan	data segment
数据流	shu	liu	data stream; data flow
数据线	shu	xian	data cable
数据组	shu	zu	dataset
数据结构	shu	gou	(computing) data structure
数据网络	shu	luo	data network
数据通信	shu	xin	data communication
数据链路	shu	lu	data link
数据链路层	shu	ceng	data link layer
数据链路连接标识	shu	zhi	data link connection identifier (DLCI)
数据集	shu	ji	dataset
数控机床	shu	chuang	computer numerical control machine tool (CNC machine tool)
数来宝	shu	bao	folk theater consisting of recitation accompanied by clapper board rhythm
数模转换器	shu	qi	digital-to-analog converter (DAC)
数珠念佛	shu	fo	to count one's prayer beads and chant Buddha's name (idiom)
数理化	shu	hua	mathematics, physics and chemistry (abbr. for 數學|数学[shu4 xue2] + 物理[wu4 li3] + 化學|化学[hua4 xue2])
数理统计	shu	ji	mathematical statistics
数理逻辑	shu	ji	mathematical logic; symbolic logic
数百万	shu	wan	several million
数目字	shu	zi	numeral; digit; number
数码冲印	shu	yin	digital printing
数码化	shu	hua	to digitize
数码扫描	shu	miao	a digital scan
数码港	shu	gang	Cyberport, a technology and commercial complex in Pok Fu Lam, Hong Kong
数码照相机	shu	ji	digital camera
数码相机	shu	ji	digital camera
数码货币	shu	bi	digital currency
数码通	shu	tong	SmarTone-Vodafone (Hong Kong and Macau company)
数见不鲜	shuo	xian	a common occurrence (idiom)
数量分析	shu	xi	quantitative analysis
数量积	shu	ji	scalar product (of vectors)
数量级	shu	ji	(math.) order of magnitude
数量词	shu	ci	numeral-classifier compound (e.g. 一次[yi1 ci4], 三套[san1 tao4], 五本[wu3 ben3] etc)
数黄道黑	shu	hei	to enumerate what is black and yellow (idiom); to criticize sb behind his back to incite quarrels; also written 數黑論黃|数黑论黄[shu3 hei1 lun4 huang2]
数黑论白	shu	bai	to enumerate what is black and yellow (idiom); to criticize sb behind his back to incite quarrels; also written 數黑論黃|数黑论黄[shu3 hei1 lun4 huang2]
数黑论黄	shu	huang	to enumerate what is black and yellow (idiom); to criticize sb behind his back to incite quarrels
敲丧钟	qiao	zhong	a knell
敲中背	qiao	bei	to receive oral sex from a prostitute
敲大背	qiao	bei	to have sex with a prostitute
敲小背	qiao	bei	to be masturbated by a prostitute
敲山震虎	qiao	hu	a deliberate show of strength as a warning
敲打锣鼓	qiao	gu	lit. to beat a gong; fig. to irritate sb; a provocation
敲敲打打	qiao	da	to make a continual banging sound; (fig.) to provoke with words
敲竹杠	qiao	gang	extortion by taking advantage of sb's weakness
敲诈勒索	qiao	suo	extortion and blackmail (idiom)
敲诈罪	qiao	zui	extortion
敲边鼓	qiao	gu	to back sb up; to support sb in an argument; (lit. to beat nearby drum)
敲钉钻脚	qiao	jiao	to make doubly sure (idiom)
敲锣边儿	qiao	r	to strike the edge of a gong; (fig.) to stir up trouble from the sidelines
敲门砖	qiao	zhuan	lit. a brick as a door knocker (idiom); fig. a temporary expedient; to use sb as a stepping stone to fortune
整体数位服务网路	zheng	lu	Integrated Service Digital Network; ISDN
整体服务数位网路	zheng	lu	ISDN (integrated services digital network)
整倍数	zheng	shu	integer multiple
整年累月	zheng	yue	month after month, year after year; year in, year out
整形外科	zheng	ke	plastic surgery; orthopedics
整形外科医生	zheng	sheng	plastic surgeon
整数倍数	zheng	shu	integral multiple
整数集合	zheng	he	(math.) the set of integers
整整齐齐	zheng	qi	neat and tidy
整流器	zheng	qi	rectifier (transforming alternating electric current to direct current)
整流罩	zheng	zhao	fairing
整脊学	zheng	xue	chiropractic
整装待发	zheng	fa	to get ready (for a journey); ready and waiting
整除数	zheng	shu	(math.) factor; exact divisor
整风运动	zheng	dong	Rectification campaign; political purge; cf Mao's 1942-44 campaign at Yanan, and his 1950 and 1957 anti-rightist purges
整齐划一	zheng	yi	to be adjusted to uniformity (usually of weights and measures) (idiom)
敷汤药	fu	yao	(coll.) to pay compensation for medical expenses
敷衍了事	fu	shi	(idiom) to do things half-heartedly; to merely go through the motions
敷衍塞责	fu	ze	(idiom) to skimp on the job; to work half-heartedly; not to take the job seriously
文不加点	wen	dian	to write a flawless essay in one go (idiom); to be quick-witted and skilled at writing compositions
文不对题	wen	ti	irrelevant; beside the point
文书处理	wen	li	paperwork; clerical tasks; (Tw) word processing
文人相轻	wen	qing	scholars tend to disparage one another (idiom)
文以载道	wen	dao	words of truth; moral expressed in words; written article explaining a moral
文件大小	wen	xiao	file size
文件夹	wen	jia	folder; file (paper)
文件服务器	wen	qi	file server
文件格式	wen	shi	file format
文具商	wen	shang	stationer
文具店	wen	dian	stationery store
文创产业	wen	ye	creative industries (design, music, publishing etc) (abbr. for 文化創意產業|文化创意产业[wen2 hua4 chuang4 yi4 chan3 ye4])
文创商品	wen	pin	product that incorporates traditional culture or local elements with innovative design ideas
文化交流	wen	liu	cultural exchange
文化传统	wen	tong	cultural tradition
文化冲击	wen	ji	culture shock
文化史	wen	shi	cultural history
文化和旅游部	wen	bu	(PRC) Ministry of Culture and Tourism
文化圈	wen	quan	sphere of cultural influence
文化城	wen	cheng	city of culture
文化大革命	wen	ming	Cultural Revolution (1966-1976)
文化宫	wen	gong	cultural palace
文化层	wen	ceng	cultural layer (in an archaeological dig)
文化水平	wen	ping	educational level
文化沙漠	wen	mo	cultural desert
文化热	wen	re	cultural fever; cultural craze
文化荒漠	wen	mo	cultural desert
文化遗产	wen	chan	cultural heritage
文化障碍	wen	ai	cultural barrier
文圣区	wen	qu	Wensheng, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
文在寅	wen	yin	Moon Jae-in (1953-), Korean politician and human rights lawyer, president of Korea from 2017
文天祥	wen	xiang	Wen Tianxiang (1236-1283), Song dynasty politician and poet, folk hero in resisting Mongol invasion in Jiangxi in 1275
文如其人	wen	ren	the writing style mirrors the writer (idiom)
文字处理	wen	li	word processing
文字学	wen	xue	philology
文字学家	wen	jia	expert on writing systems
文字改革	wen	ge	reform of the writing system
文字档	wen	dang	text file
文字狱	wen	yu	literary inquisition; official persecution of intellectuals for their writing
文学博士	wen	shi	Doctor of Letters
文学史	wen	shi	history of literature
文学士	wen	shi	Bachelor of Arts; B.A.; BA
文学家	wen	jia	writer; man of letters; CL:個|个[ge4]
文学巨匠	wen	jiang	literary master
文安县	wen	xian	Wen'an, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
文宣部	wen	bu	propaganda department
文山会海	wen	hai	a mountain of paperwork and a sea of meetings (idiom)
文山区	wen	qu	Wenshan District in Taipei 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan
文山壮族苗族自治州	wen	zhou	Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
文山州	wen	zhou	see 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
文山市	wen	shi	Wenshan, a county-level city in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
文山线	wen	xian	Taipei Metro Wenshan Line (known as the Muzha Line 木柵線|木栅线[Mu4 zha4 xian4] prior to October 8, 2009)
文峰区	wen	qu	Wenfeng, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
文康活动	wen	dong	cultural and recreational activities (Tw)
文弱书生	wen	sheng	(idiom) frail scholar
文征明	wen	ming	Wen Zhengming (1470-1559), Ming painter, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
文成县	wen	xian	Wencheng, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
文房四宝	wen	bao	Four Treasures of the Study, namely 筆|笔[bi3], 墨[mo4], 紙|纸[zhi3] and 硯|砚[yan4]; the essentials of calligraphy and scholarship (idiom)
文抄公	wen	gong	plagiarist
文攻武吓	wen	he	(of a nation) to denounce and threaten with military force; to try to coerce
文旅部	wen	bu	(PRC) Ministry of Culture and Tourism (abbr. for 文化和旅遊部|文化和旅游部[Wen2 hua4 he2 Lu:3 you2 bu4])
文昌市	wen	shi	Wenchang City, Hainan
文昌鱼	wen	yu	lancelet (Branchiostoma lanceolatum), a primitive fish
文明化	wen	hua	civilize
文明小史	wen	shi	Short History of Civilization, late Qing novel by Li Boyuan 李伯元[Li3 Bo2 yuan2] or Li Baojia 李寶嘉|李宝嘉[Li3 Bao3 jia1] describing the turmoil after the 1900 Eight-Nation Alliance 八國聯軍|八国联军[Ba1 guo2 Lian2 jun1]
文明病	wen	bing	lifestyle diseases
文曲星	wen	xing	constellation governing scholarship and examinations; (fig.) renowned literary genius; brand name of handheld electronic dictionaries made by Beijing company Golden Global View
文本框	wen	kuang	(computing) text box
文本编辑器	wen	qi	text editor
文档对象模型	wen	xing	Document Object Model (DOM)
文武双全	wen	quan	well versed in letters and military technology (idiom); fine scholar and soldier; master of pen and sword
文武合一	wen	yi	civilians and the military (working) hand in hand (idiom)
文武百官	wen	guan	civil and military officials
文殊师利菩萨	wen	sa	Manjushri, the Bodhisattva of keen awareness
文殊菩萨	wen	sa	Manjushri, the Bodhisattva of keen awareness
文水县	wen	xian	Wenshui, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
文汇报	wen	bao	Wen Wei Po (Hong Kong newspaper); Wenhui News (Shanghai newspaper)
文江学海	wen	hai	river of literacy, sea of learning (idiom); ars longa, vita brevis
文治武功	wen	gong	political and military achievements (idiom)
文牍主义	wen	yi	red tape
文物径	wen	jing	heritage trail
文献学	wen	xue	Philology; Historical Linguistics
文登区	wen	qu	Wendeng, a district of Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
文科学士	wen	shi	Bachelor of Arts B.A.
文绉绉	wen	zhou	bookish; genteel; erudite
文艺作品	wen	pin	literary work; art work
文艺兵	wen	bing	PLA military personnel who specialize in literary or artistic pursuits
文艺复兴	wen	xing	the Renaissance
文艺演出	wen	chu	theatrical performance; CL:場|场[chang3]
文苑英华	wen	hua	Finest Blossoms in the Garden of Literature, Song dynasty collection of poetry, odes, songs and writings compiled during 982-986 under Li Fang 李昉[Li3 Fang3], Xu Xuan 徐鉉|徐铉[Xu2 Xuan4], Song Bai 宋白[Song4 Bai2] and Su Yijian 蘇易簡|苏易简[Su1 Yi4 jian3], 1000 scrolls
文莱达鲁萨兰国	wen	guo	Brunei Darussalam
文言文	wen	wen	Classical Chinese writing
文诌诌	wen	zhou	bookish; genteel; erudite
文责自负	wen	fu	the author takes sole responsibility for the views expressed here (disclaimer)
文质彬彬	wen	bin	refined in manner; gentle
文过饰非	wen	fei	(idiom) to cover up one's faults; to whitewash
文部省	wen	sheng	Ministry of Education, Science and Culture (Japan), ceased to exist in 2001 when it was merged with another ministry
文锦渡	wen	du	Man Kam To (place in Hong Kong)
文须雀	wen	que	(bird species of China) bearded reedling (Panurus biarmicus)
文风不动	wen	dong	variant of 紋風不動|纹风不动[wen2 feng1 bu4 dong4]
斋戒节	zhai	jie	festival of fasting (esp. Eid al-Fitr)
斐波那契	fei	qi	Leonardo Fibonacci (c. 1170-1250), Italian mathematician
斐理伯	fei	bo	Philip, one of the Twelve Apostles of Jesus (Catholic transliteration)
斐理伯书	fei	shu	Epistle of St Paul to the Philippians
斐迪南	fei	nan	Ferdinand (name)
斑喉希鹛	ban	mei	(bird species of China) bar-throated minla (Actinodura strigula)
斑嘴鸭	ban	ya	(bird species of China) eastern spot-billed duck (Anas zonorhyncha)
斑嘴鹈鹕	ban	hu	(bird species of China) spot-billed pelican (Pelecanus philippensis)
斑头大翠鸟	ban	niao	(bird species of China) Blyth's kingfisher (Alcedo hercules)
斑头绿拟啄木鸟	ban	niao	(bird species of China) lineated barbet (Psilopogon lineatus)
斑头雁	ban	yan	(bird species of China) bar-headed goose (Anser indicus)
斑头鸺鹠	ban	liu	(bird species of China) Asian barred owlet (Glaucidium cuculoides)
斑姬啄木鸟	ban	niao	(bird species of China) speckled piculet (Picumnus innominatus)
斑姬鹟	ban	weng	(bird species of China) European pied flycatcher (Ficedula hypoleuca)
斑尾塍鹬	ban	yu	(bird species of China) bar-tailed godwit (Limosa lapponica)
斑尾林鸽	ban	ge	(bird species of China) common wood pigeon (Columba palumbus)
斑尾榛鸡	ban	ji	(bird species of China) Chinese grouse (Tetrastes sewerzowi)
斑尾鹃鸠	ban	jiu	(bird species of China) barred cuckoo-dove (Macropygia unchall)
斑文鸟	ban	niao	(bird species of China) scaly-breasted munia (Lonchura punctulata)
斑椋鸟	ban	niao	(bird species of China) Indian pied myna (Gracupica contra)
斑海豹	ban	bao	spotted seal (Phoca largha)
斑点狗	ban	gou	Dalmatian (dog breed)
斑疹伤寒	ban	han	typhus
斑疹热	ban	re	spotted fever
斑翅凤头鹃	ban	juan	(bird species of China) Jacobin cuckoo; pied cuckoo (Clamator jacobinus)
斑翅山鹑	ban	chun	(bird species of China) Daurian partridge (Perdix dauurica)
斑翅拟蜡嘴雀	ban	que	(bird species of China) spot-winged grosbeak (Mycerobas melanozanthos)
斑翅朱雀	ban	que	(bird species of China) three-banded rosefinch (Carpodacus trifasciatus)
斑翅椋鸟	ban	niao	(bird species of China) spot-winged starling (Saroglossa spilopterus)
斑翅鹩鹛	ban	mei	(bird species of China) bar-winged wren-babbler (Spelaeornis troglodytoides)
斑胁姬鹛	ban	mei	(bird species of China) Himalayan cutia (Cutia nipalensis)
斑胁田鸡	ban	ji	(bird species of China) band-bellied crake (Zapornia paykullii)
斑背噪鹛	ban	mei	(bird species of China) barred laughingthrush (Ianthocincla lunulata)
斑背大尾莺	ban	ying	(bird species of China) marsh grassbird (Helopsaltes pryeri)
斑背潜鸭	ban	ya	(bird species of China) greater scaup (Aythya marila)
斑背燕尾	ban	wei	(bird species of China) spotted forktail (Enicurus maculatus)
斑胸噪鹛	ban	mei	(bird species of China) spot-breasted laughingthrush (Garrulax merulinus)
斑胸滨鹬	ban	yu	(bird species of China) pectoral sandpiper (Calidris melanotos)
斑胸田鸡	ban	ji	(bird species of China) spotted crake (Porzana porzana)
斑胸短翅莺	ban	ying	(bird species of China) spotted bush warbler (Locustella thoracica)
斑胸钩嘴鹛	ban	mei	(bird species of China) black-streaked scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys gravivox)
斑脸海番鸭	ban	ya	(bird species of China) Stejneger's scoter (Melanitta stejnegeri)
斑腰燕	ban	yan	(bird species of China) striated swallow (Cecropis striolata)
斑颈穗鹛	ban	mei	(bird species of China) spot-necked babbler (Stachyris strialata)
斑马线	ban	xian	crosswalk; zebra crossing
斑马鱼	ban	yu	zebrafish
斑驳陆离	ban	li	variegated
斑鱼狗	ban	gou	(bird species of China) pied kingfisher (Ceryle rudis)
斗争性	dou	xing	assertiveness; combative nature
斗六市	dou	shi	Douliu or Touliu city in Yunlin county 雲林縣|云林县[Yun2 lin2 xian4], Taiwan
斗口齿	dou	chi	to quarrel; to bicker; glib repartee
斗地主	dou	zhu	dou dizhu ("fight the landlord") (card game)
斗志昂扬	dou	yang	having high fighting spirit
斗批改	dou	gai	struggle, criticize, and transform (Cultural Revolution catchcry)
斗牛士	dou	shi	matador; toreador; bullfighter
斗牛士之歌	dou	ge	Toreador Song (Votre toast, je peux vous le rendre), famous aria from opera Carmen 卡門|卡门 by Georges Bizet
斗私批修	dou	xiu	fight self-interest and repudiate revisionism (Cultural Revolution slogan)
斗筲之人	dou	ren	a small-minded person; a bean-counter
斗筲之器	dou	qi	person narrow-minded and shortsighted
斗筲之材	dou	cai	person of limited capacity
斗趣儿	dou	r	variant of 逗趣兒|逗趣儿[dou4 qu4 r5]
斗转星移	dou	yi	lit. the Big Dipper 北斗星[Bei3 dou3 xing1] has turned and the stars have moved; time flies; also written 星移斗轉|星移斗转[xing1 yi2 Dou3 zhuan3]
斗酒只鸡	dou	ji	lit. a chicken and a bottle of wine (idiom); fig. ready to make an offering to the deceased, or to entertain guests
斗门区	dou	qu	Doumen, a district of Zhuhai City 珠海市[Zhu1 hai3 Shi4], Guangdong
斗霜傲雪	dou	xue	see 欺霜傲雪[qi1 shuang1 ao4 xue3]
斗鸡眼	dou	yan	cross-eye
斗鸡走马	dou	ma	cock-fighting and horse-racing (idiom); to gamble
料事如神	liao	shen	to prophesy with supernatural accuracy (idiom); to have an incredible foresight
料件子	liao	zi	see 料件子活[liao4 jian4 zi5 huo2]
料件子活	liao	huo	piecework
料头儿	liao	r	erhua variant of 料頭|料头[liao4 tou2]
料理店	liao	dian	restaurant
料豆儿	liao	r	cooked black soybean as animal fodder
斜体字	xie	zi	italics
斜切锯	xie	ju	miter saw
斜射球	xie	qiu	a sliced ball (tennis or table tennis)
斜愣眼	xie	yan	to squint
斜愣眼儿	xie	r	erhua variant of 斜愣眼[xie2 leng5 yan3]
斜投影	xie	ying	oblique projection
斜方型	xie	xing	trapezium (geometry)
斜方肌	xie	ji	trapezius muscle (of the upper back and neck)
斜杠青年	xie	nian	young person who pursues multiple careers simultaneously; a young slashie
斜眼看	xie	kan	to look askance
斜管面	xie	mian	penne pasta
斜纹织	xie	zhi	twill weave
斜线号	xie	hao	slash (punct.); forward slash (computing); virgule
斜长石	xie	shi	plagioclase (rock-forming mineral, type of feldspar)
斟酌决定权	zhen	quan	discretionary power
斟酌字句	zhen	ju	to measure one's words
斤斤计较	jin	jiao	to haggle over every ounce; (fig.) to fuss over minor matters; to split hairs
斤斤较量	jin	liang	see 斤斤計較|斤斤计较[jin1 jin1 ji4 jiao4]
斧钺之诛	fu	zhu	to die by battle-ax (idiom); to be executed
斧钺汤镬	fu	huo	battle-ax and boiling cauldron (idiom); facing torture and execution
斩杀线	zhan	xian	(gaming) kill threshold; the critical health point cutoff at which an enemy can be finished off immediately; (fig.) (slang) a critical survival threshold; a point beyond which a person or household lacks sufficient buffer such that a single shock leads to rapid collapse
斩草除根	zhan	gen	to cut weeds and eliminate the roots (idiom); to destroy root and branch; to eliminate completely
斩钉切铁	zhan	tie	see 斬釘截鐵|斩钉截铁[zhan3 ding1 jie2 tie3]
斩钉截铁	zhan	tie	(lit.) to chop the nail and slice the iron (idiom); (fig.) resolute and decisive; unhesitating; categorical
斩钢截铁	zhan	tie	see 斬釘截鐵|斩钉截铁[zhan3 ding1 jie2 tie3]
斩首行动	zhan	dong	(military) decapitation strike
断垣残壁	duan	bi	see 斷壁殘垣|断壁残垣[duan4 bi4 can2 yuan2]
断壁残垣	duan	yuan	(lit.) broken walls and crumbling remnants (idiom); (fig.) scene of devastation; ruins
断壁颓垣	duan	yuan	lit. walls reduced to rubble (idiom); fig. scene of devastation; ruins
断头台	duan	tai	guillotine; scaffold
断头路	duan	lu	dead-end road; (fig.) impasse
断子绝孙	duan	sun	to die without progeny; (offensive) may you die childless; may you be the last of your family line
断层成像	duan	xiang	computed tomography
断层扫描	duan	miao	CT scan (computed tomography scan)
断层摄影	duan	ying	computed tomography
断层线	duan	xian	geological fault line
断崖式	duan	shi	(of a fall in price, temperature etc) steep; precipitous
断断续续	duan	xu	intermittent; off and on; discontinuous
断港绝潢	duan	huang	to be unable to continue; to come to a dead end (idiom)
断灭论	duan	lun	annihilation (of soul, Sanskrit uccheda)
断片儿	duan	r	(coll.) to suffer an alcohol-induced blackout; to be unable to recall what one did while drunk
断瓦残垣	duan	yuan	the tiles are broken, the walls dilapidated
断章取义	duan	yi	(idiom) to quote out of context
断线钳	duan	qian	bolt cutter
断线风筝	duan	zheng	a kite that is lost after its string breaks (metaphor for sb one never hears from anymore)
断背山	duan	shan	Brokeback Mountain, 2005 English-language film by Ang Lee 李安[Li3 An1]
断舍离	duan	li	(neologism, attested by 2012) decluttering; minimalism (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 断捨離 "danshari", lit. "forgoing, discarding and letting go")
断袖之癖	duan	pi	lit. cut sleeve (idiom); fig. euphemism for homosexuality, originating from History of Western Han 漢書|汉书: emperor Han Aidi (real name Liu Xin) was in bed with his lover Dong Xian, and had to attend a court audience that morning. Not wishing to awaken Dong Xian, who was sleeping with his head resting on the emperor's long robe sleeve, Aidi used a knife to cut off the lower half of his sleeve.
断裂带	duan	dai	fault zone (geology)
断裂强度	duan	du	rupture strength; breaking strength
断裂模数	duan	shu	modulus rupture
断路器	duan	qi	circuit breaker
断魂椒	duan	jiao	ghost pepper
斯事体大	si	da	see 茲事體大|兹事体大[zi1 shi4 ti3 da4]
斯佩林	si	lin	Spelling (e.g. Spelling Entertainment Group)
斯佩罗	si	luo	(surname) Spero
斯佩耳特小麦	si	mai	spelt (Triticum spelta) (loanword)
斯克里亚宾	si	bin	Alexander Scriabin (1872-1915), Russian composer and pianist
斯卡伯勒礁	si	jiao	Scarborough Shoal (Philippines' name for Huangyan Island)
斯台普斯	si	si	Staples (Center), sports arena in Los Angeles
斯哥特	si	te	Scott (name)
斯图加特	si	te	Stuttgart, city in southwest Germany and capital of Baden-Württemberg 巴登－符騰堡州|巴登－符腾堡州[Ba1 deng1 Fu2 teng2 bao3 zhou1]
斯坦利	si	li	Stanley (name)
斯坦因	si	yin	Stein (name); Marc Aurel Stein (1862-1943), Hungarian-born British archaeologist known for his expeditions to Central Asia
斯坦福	si	fu	Stanford or Stamford (name of various people, places and organizations, notably Stanford University)
斯坦福大学	si	xue	Stanford University
斯坦贝克	si	ke	John Steinbeck (1902-1968), US novelist
斯坦顿	si	dun	Stanton (name)
斯堪地纳维亚	si	ya	Scandinavia (Tw)
斯堪的纳维亚	si	ya	Scandinavia
斯塔西	si	xi	Stacy (name)
斯多葛主义	si	yi	Stoicism
斯大林	si	lin	Joseph Stalin (1879-1953), Soviet dictator
斯大林主义	si	yi	Stalinism
斯大林格勒	si	le	Stalingrad, former name of Volvograd 伏爾加格勒|伏尔加格勒 (1925-1961)
斯大林格勒会战	si	zhan	Battle of Stalingrad (1942-1943); also called 斯大林格勒戰役|斯大林格勒战役
斯大林格勒战役	si	yi	Battle of Stalingrad (1942-1943), decisive battle of Second World War and one of the bloodiest battles in history, when the Germans failed to take Stalingrad, were then trapped and destroyed by Soviet forces
斯威士兰	si	lan	Eswatini (formerly Swaziland)
斯宾塞	si	sai	(name) Spencer
斯宾诺莎	si	sha	Baruch or Benedict Spinoza (1632-1677), rationalist philosopher
斯密约瑟	si	se	Joseph Smith, Jr. (1805-1844), founder of the Latter Day Saint movement
斯巴达	si	da	Sparta
斯巴鲁	si	lu	Subaru
斯帕斯基	si	ji	Spassky (name)
斯当东	si	dong	Staunton (name); Sir George Staunton, 1st Baronet, the second-in-command of the Macartney Mission of 1793
斯彻达尔	si	er	Stjørdal (city in Trøndelag, Norway)
斯德哥尔摩	si	mo	Stockholm, capital of Sweden
斯托纳	si	na	(surname) Stoner
斯托肯立石圈	si	quan	Stonehenge stone circle
斯拉夫	si	fu	Slavic
斯拉夫语	si	yu	Slavic language
斯捷潘	si	pan	Stepan or Stefan (name)
斯摩棱斯克	si	ke	Smolensk (Russian city)
斯普利特	si	te	Split (city in Croatia)
斯普拉特利群岛	si	dao	Spratly Islands, disputed between China, Malaysia, the Philippines, Taiwan and Vietnam; same as 南沙群島|南沙群岛[Nan1 sha1 Qun2 dao3]
斯普林菲尔德	si	de	Springfield
斯普特尼克	si	ke	Sputnik, Soviet artificial Earth satellite
斯柯达	si	da	Škoda, Czech Republic car manufacturer, a subsidiary of Volkswagen Group
斯沃琪	si	qi	Swatch (Swiss brand)
斯泰恩谢尔	si	er	Steinkjær (city in Trøndelag, Norway)
斯泰西	si	xi	Stacy (name)
斯洛伐克	si	ke	Slovakia (officially the Slovak Republic since 1993)
斯洛伐克语	si	yu	Slovak (language)
斯洛文尼亚	si	ya	Slovenia
斯洛文尼亚共和国	si	guo	Republic of Slovenia
斯洛文尼亚语	si	yu	Slovenian (language)
斯洛维尼亚	si	ya	Slovenia (Tw)
斯特凡诺普洛斯	si	si	Stephanopoulos (e.g. former Clinton aide George Stephanopoulos)
斯特恩	si	en	Stern (name)
斯特拉斯堡	si	bao	Strasbourg
斯特拉特福	si	fu	Stratford (place name); Stratford-upon-Avon, UK city in Warwickshire and birthplace of William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚[Sha1 shi4 bi3 ya4]
斯瓦尔巴和扬马延	si	yan	Svalbard and Jan Mayen
斯瓦希里	si	li	Swahili
斯瓦希里语	si	yu	Swahili (language); Kiswahili
斯瓦特	si	te	Swat province in Pakistani Northwest Frontier
斯瓦特谷地	si	di	Swat valley in Pakistani Northwest Frontier
斯皮尔伯格	si	ge	Steven Spielberg (1946-), US film director
斯福尔瓦尔	si	er	Svolvær (city in Nordland, Norway)
斯科普里	si	li	Skopje, capital of North Macedonia
斯科费尔峰	si	feng	Scafell Pike, the highest mountain in England (978 m)
斯维尔德洛夫	si	fu	Yakov Mikhailovich Sverdlov (1885-1919), Bolshevik organizer, ordered the murder of the Tsar's family in 1918, died of Spanish influenza
斯考特	si	te	Scott (name)
斯芬克司	si	si	Sphinx (Egyptian mythical beast)
斯芬克斯	si	si	sphinx (myth.) (loanword)
斯莱特林	si	lin	Slytherin (Harry Potter)
斯蒂文	si	wen	Steven (name); Simon Stevin (1548-1620), Flemish engineer and mathematician, played a key role in introducing the decimal system to Europe
斯蒂文森	si	sen	Stevenson or Stephenson (name)
斯蒂芬	si	fen	Stephen or Steven (name)
斯诺克	si	ke	(loanword) snooker
斯诺登	si	deng	Edward Snowden (1983-), American surveillance program whistleblower
斯通亨治石栏	si	lan	Stonehenge stone circle
斯里兰卡	si	ka	Sri Lanka
斯里巴加湾港	si	gang	Bandar Seri Begawan, capital of Brunei
新一代	xin	dai	new generation
新不伦瑞克	xin	ke	New Brunswick province, Canada
新不列颠岛	xin	dao	New Britain, island of northeast Papua New Guinea
新中国	xin	guo	New China (post-1949 China)
新丰县	xin	xian	Xinfeng, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
新义州市	xin	shi	Shin'ŭiju, capital of North Pyong'an Province, North Korea
新乐市	xin	shi	Xinle, a county-level city in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
新乡县	xin	xian	Xinxiang, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
新乡市	xin	shi	Xinxiang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
新五代史	xin	shi	Later History of the Five Dynasties (between Tang and Song), nineteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1] in 1053 during Northern Song Dynasty, 74 scrolls
新产品推介会	xin	hui	product launch event
新京报	xin	bao	Beijing news (newspaper)
新仇旧恨	xin	hen	(idiom) old and new grudges; accumulated grievances
新会区	xin	qu	Xinhui, a district of Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
新余市	xin	shi	Xinyu, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
新修本草	xin	cao	Tang dynasty compendium of herbal medicine
新儒家	xin	jia	New Confucianism, a social and political movement founded in 1920s China that combines aspects of Western and Eastern philosophy; see also 當代新儒家|当代新儒家[Dang1 dai4 Xin1 Ru2 jia1]
新元史	xin	shi	New History of the Yuan Dynasty, completed by Ke Shaomin 柯劭忞[Ke1 Shao4 min2] in 1920, sometimes listed as one of the 24 Dynastic Histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3]
新兴产业	xin	ye	emerging industry
新兴区	xin	qu	Xinxing, a district of Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang; Sinsing, a district of Kaohsiung City 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
新兴县	xin	xian	Xinxing, a county in Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
新兴经济国家	xin	jia	developing economic state; developing nation
新兵蛋子	xin	zi	(coll.) (military) raw recruit; rookie
新农合	xin	he	New Rural Cooperative Medical Scheme; abbr. for 新型農村合作醫療|新型农村合作医疗
新冠病毒	xin	du	novel coronavirus (abbr. for 新型冠狀病毒|新型冠状病毒[xin1 xing2 guan1 zhuang4 bing4 du2]) (esp. SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19)
新冠肺炎	xin	yan	COVID-19, the coronavirus disease identified in 2019
新几内亚	xin	ya	New Guinea
新出炉	xin	lu	fresh out of the oven; fig. novelty just announced; recently made available
新出生	xin	sheng	newly born
新剧同志会	xin	hui	New Play Comrade Society, Chinese theatrical company founded in 1912, a continuation of the Spring Willow Society 春柳社[Chun1 liu3 she4]
新加坡	xin	po	Singapore
新加坡人	xin	ren	Singaporean person; Singaporean
新加坡国立大学	xin	xue	National University of Singapore
新化县	xin	xian	Xinhua, a county in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
新北区	xin	qu	Xinbei, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
新北市	xin	shi	New Taipei City, administrative district in north Taiwan, formerly 臺北縣|台北县[Tai2 bei3 Xian4]
新北界	xin	jie	Nearctic realm
新华书店	xin	dian	Xinhua Bookstore, China's largest bookstore chain
新华区	xin	qu	Xinhua, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei; Xinhua, a district of Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei; Xinhua, a district of Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
新华日报	xin	bao	Xinhua Daily newspaper
新华社	xin	she	Xinhua News Agency, official press agency of the People's Republic of China, founded in 1931
新华网	xin	wang	Xinhua News Network
新南威尔士	xin	shi	New South Wales, southeast Australian state
新南威尔士州	xin	zhou	New South Wales (Australian state)
新古典	xin	dian	neoclassical
新古典主义	xin	yi	neoclassicism
新台币	xin	bi	New Taiwan dollar (NTD)
新吴区	xin	qu	Xinwu, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
新和县	xin	xian	Xinhe, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
新唐书	xin	shu	History of the Later Tang Dynasty, seventeenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Ouyang Xiu 歐陽修|欧阳修[Ou1 yang2 Xiu1] and Song Qi 宋祁[Song4 Qi2] in 1060 during Northern Song 北宋[Bei3 Song4], 225 scrolls
新喀里多尼亚	xin	ya	New Caledonia
新四军	xin	jun	New Fourth army of Republic of China, set up in 1937 and controlled by the communists
新型农村合作医疗	xin	liao	New Rural Cooperative Medical Scheme; abbr. to 新農合|新农合
新型冠状病毒	xin	du	novel coronavirus (esp. SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing COVID-19)
新城区	xin	qu	Xincheng, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia; Xincheng, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
新城电台	xin	tai	Metro Radio Hong Kong
新城病	xin	bing	Newcastle disease
新墨西哥	xin	ge	New Mexico, US state
新大陆	xin	lu	the New World; the Americas as opposed to the Old World 舊大陸|旧大陆[jiu4 da4 lu4] or Eurasia
新天地	xin	di	Xintiandi (shopping, eating and entertainment district of Shanghai)
新奥尔良	xin	liang	New Orleans, Louisiana
新娘子	xin	zi	see 新娘[xin1 niang2]
新娘秘书	xin	shu	(Tw) bridal stylist
新婚夫妇	xin	fu	newly married couple; newlyweds
新婚宴尔	xin	er	variant of 新婚燕爾|新婚燕尔[xin1 hun1 yan4 er3]
新婚燕尔	xin	er	(idiom) to experience the joy of being newly married
新媒体	xin	ti	new media (digital media, as contrasted with traditional media)
新嫁娘	xin	niang	bride
新字体	xin	ti	shinjitai, simplified Japanese character used since 1946
新宁县	xin	xian	Xinning, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
新安县	xin	xian	Xin'an, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
新官上任三把火	xin	huo	(of a newly appointed official) to make bold changes on assuming office (idiom)
新宾县	xin	xian	see 新賓滿族自治縣|新宾满族自治县[Xin1 bin1 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
新宾满族县	xin	xian	see 新賓滿族自治縣|新宾满族自治县[Xin1 bin1 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
新宾满族自治县	xin	xian	Xinbin Manchu Autonomous County, in Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
新密市	xin	shi	Xinmi, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
新巴尔虎右旗	xin	qi	New Barag right banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
新巴尔虎左旗	xin	qi	New Barag left banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
新市区	xin	qu	Xinshi District of Ürümqi, Xinjiang; Sinshih District of Tainan, Taiwan
新市镇	xin	zhen	new town; planned community
新干县	xin	xian	Xingan, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
新干线	xin	xian	Shinkansen, Japan's high-speed rail network; Shinkansen train
新平县	xin	xian	see 新平彝族傣族自治縣|新平彝族傣族自治县[Xin1 ping2 Yi2 zu2 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
新平彝族傣族自治县	xin	xian	Xinping Yi and Dai Autonomous County, in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
新年前夕	xin	xi	New Year's eve
新年快乐	xin	le	Happy New Year!
新庄市	xin	shi	Xinzhuang or Hsinchuang city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
新店市	xin	shi	Xindian or Hsintien city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
新店溪	xin	xi	Xindian or Hsintian Creek, one of the rivers through Taipei, Taiwan
新建区	xin	qu	Xinjian, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
新德里	xin	li	New Delhi, capital of India
新思想	xin	xiang	new ideas
新愁旧恨	xin	hen	new worries added to old hatred (idiom); afflicted by problems old and new
新慕道团	xin	tuan	neo Catechumenal way
新成土	xin	tu	primosol (soil taxonomy)
新抚区	xin	qu	Xinfu, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
新教徒	xin	tu	Protestant; adherent of Protestantism
新文化运动	xin	dong	the New Culture Movement (mid-1910s and 1920s), intellectual revolution against Confucianism aiming to introduce Western elements, especially democracy and science
新斯科舍	xin	she	Nova Scotia province, Canada
新新人类	xin	lei	new generation of youths (generation X, Y etc)
新时代	xin	dai	new age
新昌县	xin	xian	Xinchang, a county in Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
新春佳节	xin	jie	Chinese New Year festivities
新晃侗族自治县	xin	xian	Xinhuang Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
新晃县	xin	xian	see 新晃侗族自治縣|新晃侗族自治县[Xin1 huang3 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
新来乍到	xin	dao	newly arrived (idiom)
新林区	xin	qu	Xinlin, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
新柏拉图主义	xin	yi	neo-Platonism (philosophical system combining Platonism with mysticism)
新殖民主义	xin	yi	neocolonialism
新殖民化	xin	hua	neocolonialization
新民主主义	xin	yi	New Democracy
新民主主义论	xin	lun	On New Democracy (1940), by Mao Zedong
新民主主义革命	xin	ming	(Maoism) New Democracy (aka New Democratic Revolution)
新民市	xin	shi	Xinmin, a county-level city in Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
新民晚报	xin	bao	Xinmin Evening News
新沂市	xin	shi	Xinyi, a county-level city in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
新河县	xin	xian	Xinhe, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
新泰市	xin	shi	Xintai, a county-level city in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
新泽西	xin	xi	New Jersey, US state
新津区	xin	qu	Xinjin, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
新洲区	xin	qu	Xinzhou, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
新浪微博	xin	bo	Sina Weibo, Chinese microblogging platform
新浪网	xin	wang	Sina, Chinese web portal and online media company
新海峡时报	xin	bao	New Strait Times (newspaper)
新源县	xin	xian	Xinyuan, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
新热带界	xin	jie	Neotropic (ecozone)
新瓶旧酒	xin	jiu	old wine in a new bottle (idiom)
新瓶装旧酒	xin	jiu	old wine in a new bottle (idiom)
新生代	xin	dai	Cenozoic (geological era covering the last 65m years)
新生儿	xin	er	newborn baby; neonate
新田县	xin	xian	Xintian, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
新畿内亚	xin	ya	New Guinea
新疆手抓饭	xin	fan	Xinjiang-style pilaf, made with lamb
新疆歌鸲	xin	qu	(bird species of China) common nightingale (Luscinia megarhynchos)
新疆生产建设兵团	xin	tuan	Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps, also known as XPCC or Bingtuan ("the Corps"), a state-owned economic and paramilitary organization in China's Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region
新疆维吾尔自治区	xin	qu	Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region, capital Ürümqi 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4] (short name 新[Xin1])
新石器	xin	qi	Neolithic
新石器时代	xin	dai	Neolithic Era
新竹县	xin	xian	Xinzhu or Hsinchu County in northwest Taiwan
新竹市	xin	shi	Hsinchu, city in north Taiwan noted for its high tech industries
新约全书	xin	shu	New Testament
新纪元	xin	yuan	New Age (movement)
新绛县	xin	xian	Xinjiang, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
新罕布什尔	xin	er	New Hampshire, US state
新罗区	xin	qu	Xinluo, a district of Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
新罗王朝	xin	chao	Silla, Korean kingdom 57 BC-935 AD; one of the Korean Three Kingdoms from 1st century AD, defeating its rivals Paikche 百濟|百济[Bai3 ji4] and Koguryo 高句麗|高句丽[Gao1 gou1 li2] around 660 in alliance with Tang China; unified Silla 658-935
新能源	xin	yuan	new energy; alternative energy (energy from nontraditional sources, such as solar, wind, nuclear and hydrogen energy)
新艺拉玛	xin	ma	Cinerama
新艺综合体	xin	ti	CinemaScope
新芬党	xin	dang	Sinn Fein, Irish political party
新英格兰	xin	lan	New England
新荣区	xin	qu	Xinrong, a district of Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
新蔡县	xin	xian	Xincai, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
新西伯利亚	xin	ya	Novosibirsk (city in Russia)
新西伯利亚市	xin	shi	Novosibirsk, city in Russia
新西兰	xin	lan	New Zealand
新邱区	xin	qu	Xinqiu, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
新邵县	xin	xian	Xinshao, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
新郎倌	xin	guan	bridegroom; groom
新郎官	xin	guan	bridegroom; groom
新郑市	xin	shi	Xinzheng, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
新都区	xin	qu	Xindu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
新野县	xin	xian	Xinye, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
新金县	xin	xian	Xinjin county in Liaoning
新闻主播	xin	bo	newsreader; anchor
新闻出版总署	xin	shu	General Administration of Press and Publication (PRC state censorship organization)
新闻发布会	xin	hui	press conference; news conference
新闻发言人	xin	ren	spokesman
新闻周刊	xin	kan	Newsweek magazine
新闻处	xin	chu	news service; information agency
新闻媒体	xin	ti	news media
新闻学	xin	xue	journalism
新闻工作者	xin	zhe	journalist
新闻界	xin	jie	the press; the media
新闻稿	xin	gao	press release
新闻策划	xin	hua	communication management; public relations
新闻组	xin	zu	newsgroup
新闻网	xin	wang	news agency
新闻自由	xin	you	freedom of the press
新闻记者	xin	zhe	journalist
新阶段	xin	duan	new level; higher plane
新陈代谢	xin	xie	metabolism (biology); the new replaces the old (idiom)
新霉素	xin	su	(pharmacology) neomycin
新风系统	xin	tong	ventilation system that purifies outdoor air during intake
新马泰	xin	tai	Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand (abbr. for 新加坡[Xin1 jia1 po1] + 馬來西亞|马来西亚[Ma3 lai2 xi1 ya4] + 泰國|泰国[Tai4 guo2])
新龙县	xin	xian	Xinlong, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
方位角	fang	jiao	azimuth
方位词	fang	ci	noun of locality (linguistics)
方便贴	fang	tie	Post-it note; sticky note
方便面	fang	mian	instant noodles
方兴未已	fang	yi	flourishing and still in the ascendant (idiom); rapidly expanding; still growing strong; on the up
方兴未艾	fang	ai	flourishing and still in the ascendant (idiom); rapidly expanding; still growing strong; on the up
方向性	fang	xing	directionality (molecular biology)
方向感	fang	gan	sense of direction
方向盘	fang	pan	steering wheel
方块字	fang	zi	Chinese characters
方块舞	fang	wu	square dance (traditional American dance)
方城县	fang	xian	Fangcheng, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
方大同	fang	tong	Khalil Fong (1983–2025), Hong Kong singer-songwriter
方头巾	fang	jin	headscarf
方头括号	fang	hao	lenticular brackets (【】 or 〖〗)
方头螺帽	fang	mao	square headed nut
方孔钱	fang	qian	round coin with a square hole in the middle, used in former times in China
方寸大乱	fang	luan	(idiom) to become agitated; to get worked up
方寸已乱	fang	luan	(idiom) confused; troubled; bewildered
方尖碑	fang	bei	obelisk
方尾鹟	fang	weng	(bird species of China) grey-headed canary-flycatcher (Culicicapa ceylonensis)
方山县	fang	xian	Fangshan, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
方括号	fang	hao	square brackets [ ]
方文山	fang	shan	Vincent Fang (1969-), Taiwanese multi-Golden Melody Award lyricist
方方正正	fang	zheng	square-shaped
方方面面	fang	mian	all sides; all aspects; multifaceted
方枘圆凿	fang	zao	(lit.) like a square peg in a round hole (idiom); (fig.) incompatible
方格纸	fang	zhi	squared paper; graph paper; grid paper (manuscript paper with squares for Chinese characters)
方框图	fang	tu	flowchart; block diagram
方正县	fang	xian	Fangzheng, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
方法学	fang	xue	methodology
方法论	fang	lun	methodology
方程式	fang	shi	(math.) equation
方程组	fang	zu	(math.) simultaneous equations; system of equations
方解石	fang	shi	calcite (CaCO3 as rock-forming mineral)
方铅矿	fang	kuang	galena
施主能级	shi	ji	donor level (semiconductor)
施事者	shi	zhe	(linguistics) agent; doer
施华洛世奇水晶	shi	jing	Swarovski crystal
施密特	shi	te	(surname) Schmidt or Schmitt
施工单位	shi	wei	unit in charge of construction; builder
施政报告	shi	gao	administrative report
施明德	shi	de	Shih Ming-teh (1941–2024), Taiwanese politician, imprisoned 1962–1977 and 1980–1990 under the Guomindang, subsequently a leader of DPP 民進黨|民进党[Min2 jin4 dang3], in 2006 led protests against Chen Shui-Bian 陳水扁|陈水扁[Chen2 Shui3 bian3]
施泰尔马克	shi	ke	Styria (Steiermark), province of Austria
施洗约翰	shi	han	John the Baptist
施洗者约翰	shi	han	John the Baptist
施特劳斯	shi	si	Strauss (name); Johann Strauss (1825-1899), Austrian composer; Richard Strauss (1864-1949), German composer
施瓦布	shi	bu	Schwab (name)
施瓦辛格	shi	ge	Arnold Schwarzenegger (1947–), Austrian-American bodybuilder, actor and politician, governor of California (2003–2011)
施甸县	shi	xian	Shidian, a county in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
施秉县	shi	xian	Shibing, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
施粥舍饭	shi	fan	to provide alms and rice (idiom)
施罗德	shi	de	(name) Schröder; Gerhard Schröder (1944–), German SPD politician, Chancellor 1998–2005
施耐庵	shi	an	Shi Nai'an (1296-1371), author of Water Margin or Outlaws of the Marsh 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4]
施虐受虐	shi	nve	sado-masochism
施虐狂	shi	kuang	sadism (psychiatry)
施虐癖	shi	pi	sadism (fetish)
施虐者	shi	zhe	abuser; (in sadomasochism) dominant partner
旁听生	pang	sheng	auditor (student)
旁敲侧击	pang	ji	to make insinuations; to take an indirect approach (in making inquiries) (idiom)
旁腱肌	pang	ji	see 膕旁腱肌|腘旁腱肌[guo2 pang2 jian4 ji1]; hamstring (anatomy)
旁若无人	pang	ren	to act as though there were nobody else present; unselfconscious; fig. without regard for others
旁观者	pang	zhe	observer; spectator
旁观者清	pang	qing	an outsider can see things more clearly or objectively than those involved (idiom)
旁边儿	pang	r	erhua variant of 旁邊|旁边[pang2 bian1]
旁遮普	pang	pu	Punjab state of India; Punjab province of Pakistan
旁遮普省	pang	sheng	Punjab province of Pakistan
旁遮普邦	pang	bang	Punjab state in northwest India bordering Pakistan
旁门左道	pang	dao	dissenting religious sect (idiom); heretical school of opinion; dissident group
旅大市	lv	shi	former name of Dalian city 大連|大连[Da4 lian2] incorporating Lüshun 旅順|旅顺[Lu:3 shun4]
旅大租地条约	lv	yue	unequal treaty of 1898 whereby the Qing dynasty ceded the lease of Lüshun (Port Arthur) to Russia
旅居车	lv	che	motorhome; RV (recreational vehicle)
旅平险	lv	xian	travel insurance covering medical expenses (abbr. for 旅遊平安保險|旅游平安保险[lu : 3 you2 ping2 an1 bao3 xian3])
旅游业	lv	ye	tourism industry
旅游团	lv	tuan	tour group
旅游城市	lv	shi	tourist city
旅游客	lv	ke	a tourist
旅游景点	lv	dian	tourist attraction; travel sight
旅游热点	lv	dian	a hot tourist attraction; a tourist trap
旅游者	lv	zhe	tourist; traveler; visitor
旅游胜地	lv	di	tourist destination; tourist attraction
旅游集散中心	lv	xin	tour group assembly and dispatch center
旅程表	lv	biao	itinerary
旅行团	lv	tuan	tour group
旅行支票	lv	piao	traveler's check
旅行社	lv	she	travel agency
旅行者	lv	zhe	traveler
旅行袋	lv	dai	travel bag
旅行装备	lv	bei	travel equipment; travel gear
旅顺口	lv	kou	see 旅順口區|旅顺口区[Lu : 3 shun4 kou3 Qu1]
旅顺口区	lv	qu	Lüshunkou, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
旅顺港	lv	gang	Lüshun port, on the tip of the Liaoning peninsula; called Port Arthur during Russian occupation and Russian-Japanese war of 1905; in Lüshunkou district of Dalian 大連|大连, Liaoning
旋乾转坤	xuan	kun	lit. overturning heaven and earth (idiom); earth-shattering; a radical change
旋前肌	xuan	ji	pronator teres muscle (below the elbow)
旋木雀	xuan	que	(bird species of China) Eurasian treecreeper (Certhia familiaris)
旋涡星云	xuan	yun	spiral nebula
旋涡星系	xuan	xi	spiral galaxy
旋涡状	xuan	zhuang	spiral-shaped
旋筒风帆	xuan	fan	rotor sail
旋花科	xuan	ke	Convolvulaceae, herbaceous plant family
旋覆花	xuan	hua	(botany) convolvulvus; Flos Inulae (Chinese herb)
旋转力	xuan	li	turning force; torque
旋转台	xuan	tai	rotating platform; luggage carousel
旋转对称	xuan	chen	(geometry) rotational symmetry
旋转曲面	xuan	mian	a surface of revolution (math.)
旋转木马	xuan	ma	merry-go-round; carousel
旋转极	xuan	ji	pole of rotation
旋转烤肉	xuan	rou	döner kebab
旋转球	xuan	qiu	spin ball
旋转角	xuan	jiao	angle of rotation
旋转角速度	xuan	du	rotational angular velocity
旋转轴	xuan	zhou	axis of rotation
旋转运动	xuan	dong	rotation; rotary motion
旋转门	xuan	men	revolving door
旋风脚	xuan	jiao	whirlwind kick (martial arts)
旌德县	jing	xian	Jingde, a county in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
旌阳区	jing	qu	Jingyang, a district of Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
旖旎风光	yi	guang	see 風光旖旎|风光旖旎[feng1 guang1 yi3 ni3]
旗帜鲜明	qi	ming	to show one's colors; to have a clear-cut stand (idiom)
旗开得胜	qi	sheng	lit. to win a victory on raising the flag (idiom); fig. to start on sth and have immediate success; success in a single move
旗津区	qi	qu	Qijin or Chichin district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
旗舰店	qi	dian	flagship (store)
旗鼓相当	qi	dang	lit. two armies have equivalent banners and drums (idiom); fig. evenly matched; roughly comparable (opponents)
无不达	wu	da	nothing he can't do
无与伦比	wu	bi	incomparable
无业游民	wu	min	unemployed person; vagrant; rogue
无业闲散	wu	san	unemployed and idle
无丝分裂	wu	lie	amitosis
无中生有	wu	you	to create something from nothing (idiom)
无为市	wu	shi	Wuwei, a county-level city in Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
无主失物	wu	wu	unclaimed lost property
无主见	wu	jian	without one's own opinions
无争议	wu	yi	uncontroversial; accepted
无事不登三宝殿	wu	dian	lit. one doesn't visit a temple without a cause (idiom); fig. to visit sb with an ulterior motive (esp. to ask for sth)
无事可做	wu	zuo	to have nothing to do; to have time on one's hands
无事献殷勤非奸即盗	wu	dao	one who is unaccountably solicitous is hiding evil intentions (idiom)
无事生非	wu	fei	to make trouble out of nothing
无产者	wu	zhe	proletariat; non-propertied person
无产阶级	wu	ji	proletariat
无人不	wu	bu	no man is not...
无人不晓	wu	xiao	known to everyone
无人不知	wu	zhi	known to everybody
无人区	wu	qu	uninhabited region
无人售票	wu	piao	self-service ticketing; automated ticketing
无人机	wu	ji	drone; unmanned aerial vehicle
无人能及	wu	ji	nobody can compete with; unmatched by anybody; without rival
无人问津	wu	jin	to be of no interest to anyone (idiom)
无人飞行器	wu	qi	drone; unmanned aerial vehicle
无人驾驶	wu	shi	unmanned; unpiloted
无从下手	wu	shou	not know where to start
无以为报	wu	bao	unable to return the favor
无以为生	wu	sheng	no way to get by
无以复加	wu	jia	in the extreme (idiom); incapable of further increase
无价之宝	wu	bao	(idiom) priceless treasure
无价珍珠	wu	zhu	Pearl of Great Price (Mormonism)
无任感激	wu	ji	deeply obliged
无休无止	wu	zhi	ceaseless; endless (idiom)
无伤大雅	wu	ya	(of a defect etc) to be of no great matter (idiom); harmless
无伴奏合唱	wu	chang	a cappella (music)
无依无靠	wu	kao	(idiom) having nothing to rely on; on one's own
无信义	wu	yi	in bad faith; false; perfidious
无倚无靠	wu	kao	see 無依無靠|无依无靠[wu2 yi1 wu2 kao4]
无做作	wu	zuo	unaffected (i.e. behaving naturally)
无党派	wu	pai	politically unaffiliated; independent (candidate)
无关痛痒	wu	yang	(idiom) to not affect sb; irrelevant; of no importance; insignificant
无关紧要	wu	yao	indifferent; insignificant
无农药	wu	yao	without agricultural chemicals; pesticide-free
无冬无夏	wu	xia	regardless of the season; all the year round
无出其右	wu	you	(idiom) matchless; without equal; there is nothing better
无利不起早	wu	zao	(saying) people don't get up early unless there is some benefit in doing so; won't lift a finger unless there's something in it for oneself
无力回天	wu	tian	(idiom) powerless to save the situation; unable to avert disaster
无力感	wu	gan	feeling of powerlessness; sense of helplessness
无功不受禄	wu	lu	Don't get a reward if it's not deserved. (idiom)
无功受禄	wu	lu	to get undeserved rewards (idiom)
无功而返	wu	fan	to return without any achievement (idiom); to go home with one's tail between one's legs
无动于中	wu	zhong	variant of 無動於衷|无动于衷[wu2 dong4 yu2 zhong1]
无动于衷	wu	zhong	aloof; indifferent; unconcerned
无助感	wu	gan	to feel helpless; feeling useless
无厘头	wu	tou	silly talk or "mo lei tau" (Cantonese), genre of humor emerging from Hong Kong late in the 20th century
无原则	wu	ze	unprincipled
无可争议	wu	yi	undeniable; uncontroversial
无可匹敌	wu	di	unsurpassed; unparalleled
无可厚非	wu	fei	see 未可厚非[wei4 ke3 hou4 fei1]
无可奈何	wu	he	have no way out; have no alternative; abbr. to 無奈|无奈[wu2 nai4]
无可奉告	wu	gao	(idiom) no comment
无可挑剔	wu	ti	excellent in every respect; flawless
无可挽回	wu	hui	irrevocable; the die is cast
无可救药	wu	yao	(idiom) (of an illness) incurable; (of a person, behavior etc) incorrigible; beyond any possibility of correction
无可无不可	wu	ke	neither for nor against sth; indifferent
无可置疑	wu	yi	cannot be doubted (idiom)
无可避免	wu	mian	see 不可避免[bu4 ke3 bi4 mian3]
无可非议	wu	yi	irreproachable (idiom); nothing blameworthy about it at all
无叶风扇	wu	shan	bladeless fan
无名之辈	wu	bei	unknown person; nobody
无名小卒	wu	zu	insignificant soldier (idiom); a nobody; nonentity
无名战士墓	wu	mu	Tomb of the Unknown Soldier
无名指	wu	zhi	ring finger
无名氏	wu	shi	anonymous person
无名烈士墓	wu	mu	tomb of the unknown soldier
无名英雄	wu	xiong	unnamed hero
无后坐力炮	wu	pao	recoilless rifle
无咖啡因	wu	yin	decaffeinated; decaf
无国界	wu	jie	without borders (used for organizations such as Médecins sans Frontières)
无国界医生	wu	sheng	Médecins Sans Frontières (MSF charity); Doctors Without Borders
无国界料理	wu	li	fusion cuisine (Tw)
无国界记者	wu	zhe	Reporters Without Borders (pressure group)
无土栽培	wu	pei	soilless cultivation (e.g. hydroponics)
无地自容	wu	rong	(idiom) ashamed and unable to show one's face
无坚不摧	wu	cui	no stronghold one cannot overcome (idiom); to conquer every obstacle; nothing one can't do; to carry everything before one
无声无息	wu	xi	wordless and uncommunicative (idiom); without speaking; taciturn; not providing any news
无壳族	wu	zu	see 無殼蝸牛|无壳蜗牛[wu2 ke2 wo1 niu2]
无壳蜗牛	wu	niu	fig. people who cannot afford to buy their own house
无处不在	wu	zai	to be everywhere
无处容身	wu	shen	nowhere to hide
无头苍蝇	wu	ying	headless fly (a metaphor for sb who is rushing around frantically)
无奇不有	wu	you	nothing is too bizarre; full of extraordinary things
无奸不商	wu	shang	all businessmen are evil (idiom)
无孔不钻	wu	zuan	lit. leave no hole undrilled (idiom); to latch on to every opportunity
无字碑	wu	bei	stone tablet without inscription; blank stele
无定形碳	wu	tan	amorphous carbon
无家可归	wu	gui	(idiom) homeless
无容置疑	wu	yi	cannot be doubted (idiom)
无尾熊	wu	xiong	koala
无尾猿	wu	yuan	ape
无巧不成书	wu	shu	curious coincidence
无师自通	wu	tong	self-taught; to learn without a teacher (idiom)
无底坑	wu	keng	the bottomless pit (Hell in the Bible); pitless (elevator)
无底洞	wu	dong	bottomless pit
无形中	wu	zhong	imperceptibly; virtually
无形贸易	wu	yi	invisibles (trade)
无形输出	wu	chu	invisible export
无影无踪	wu	zong	(idiom) (to disappear) without a trace
无往不利	wu	li	(idiom) to be successful in every endeavor
无征不信	wu	xin	without proof one can't believe it (idiom)
无微不至	wu	zhi	in every possible way (idiom); meticulous
无心插柳	wu	liu	(idiom) (of a good outcome) unanticipated; serendipitous; fortuitous
无心插柳柳成阴	wu	yin	lit. idly poke a stick in the mud and it grows into a tree to shade you; (fig.) unintentional actions may bring unexpected success; also written 無心插柳柳成蔭|无心插柳柳成荫
无忧无虑	wu	lv	(idiom) carefree; without worries
无思无虑	wu	lv	(idiom) carefree; untroubled
无性生殖	wu	zhi	asexual reproduction
无性繁殖	wu	zhi	asexual reproduction
无怨无悔	wu	hui	no complaints; to have no regrets
无怪乎	wu	hu	no wonder (that...)
无恶不作	wu	zuo	not to shrink from any crime (idiom); to commit any imaginable misdeed
无患子	wu	zi	Sapindales; order of scented bushes and trees, includes citrus fruit and lychee
无情无义	wu	yi	completely lacking any feeling or sense of justice (idiom); cold and ruthless
无意中	wu	zhong	accidentally; unintentionally; unexpectedly
无意识	wu	shi	unconscious; involuntary
无意间	wu	jian	inadvertently; unintentionally
无懈可击	wu	ji	(idiom) impossible to fault; impeccable
无所不为	wu	wei	not stopping at anything; all manner of evil
无所不包	wu	bao	(idiom) not excluding anything; all-encompassing
无所不卖	wu	mai	to sell anything; to sell everything
无所不在	wu	zai	omnipresent
无所不用其极	wu	ji	committing all manner of crimes; completely unscrupulous
无所不知	wu	zhi	omniscient
无所不能	wu	neng	omnipotent
无所不至	wu	zhi	to reach everywhere; to stop at nothing; to do one's utmost
无所不谈	wu	tan	to talk about everything
无所事事	wu	shi	to have nothing to do; to idle one's time away (idiom)
无所作为	wu	wei	attempting nothing and accomplishing nothing (idiom); without any initiative or drive; feckless
无所属	wu	shu	unaffiliated; non-party
无所用心	wu	xin	not paying attention to anything (idiom); to idle time away
无所畏忌	wu	ji	without any fear of consequences; totally devoid of scruples
无所谓	wu	wei	to be indifferent; not to matter; cannot be said to be
无所适从	wu	cong	not knowing which course to follow (idiom); at a loss what to do
无把握	wu	wo	uncertain
无拘无束	wu	shu	free and unconstrained (idiom); unfettered; unbuttoned; without care or worries
无支祁	wu	qi	a water goblin in Chinese mythology usually depicted as a monkey
无政府主义	wu	yi	anarchism
无效社交	wu	jiao	unproductive social interaction
无时无刻	wu	ke	(idiom) (when followed by 不[bu4]) at no time; never (Note: 無時無刻不|无时无刻不[wu2 shi2 wu2 ke4 bu4] therefore means "at no time not ...", i.e. "at all times".); (when not followed by 不[bu4]) at all times; always
无晶圆	wu	yuan	fabless (semiconductor company)
无期别	wu	bie	to part for an unspecified period; to take leave from indefinitely
无期徒刑	wu	xing	life imprisonment
无机化学	wu	xue	inorganic chemistry
无机物	wu	wu	inorganic compound
无机盐	wu	yan	inorganic salt
无机肥	wu	fei	inorganic fertilizer
无条件	wu	jian	unconditional
无条件投降	wu	xiang	unconditional surrender
无极县	wu	xian	Wuji, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
无核化	wu	hua	to make nuclear-free; to de-nuclearize
无核区	wu	qu	nuclear weapon-free zone
无棣县	wu	xian	Wudi, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
无欲无求	wu	qiu	(idiom) to be free of worldly desires and ambitions; to neither want nor seek (fame, profit, material gain etc)
无止尽	wu	jin	endless
无毒不丈夫	wu	fu	no poison, no great man (idiom); A great man has to be ruthless.
无法可施	wu	shi	nothing can be done (about it)
无法无天	wu	tian	(idiom) defiant of the law and lacking any sense of morality; lawless; out of control; unruly
无济于事	wu	shi	(idiom) to no avail; of no use
无烟炭	wu	tan	smokeless coal
无烟煤	wu	mei	anthracite
无牵无挂	wu	gua	(idiom) unburdened by obligations or attachments; carefree
无独有偶	wu	ou	not alone but in pairs (idiom, usually derog.); not a unique occurrence; it's not the only case
无理取闹	wu	nao	(idiom) to make trouble without reason; to be deliberately provocative
无理数	wu	shu	irrational number
无生命	wu	ming	non-living; inanimate; lifeless
无用之树	wu	shu	useless person (originally from Zhuangzi's "A Happy Excursion" 逍遙遊|逍遥游)
无疾而终	wu	zhong	(lit.) to die without illness (idiom); (fig.) to result in failure (without any outside interference); to come to nothing; to fizzle out
无病呻吟	wu	yin	(idiom) to moan and groan despite not being sick; to feign illness; to complain without cause; (of writing) to indulge in confected sentimentality
无病自灸	wu	jiu	lit. to prescribe moxibustion for oneself when not ill; to cause oneself trouble with superfluous action
无症状	wu	zhuang	asymptomatic
无痕模式	wu	shi	(computing) incognito mode
无的放矢	wu	shi	to shoot without aim (idiom); fig. to speak without thinking; firing blindly; to shoot in the air
无知觉	wu	jue	senseless
无神论	wu	lun	atheism
无神论者	wu	zhe	atheist
无福消受	wu	shou	unfortunately cannot enjoy (idiom)
无秩序	wu	xu	disorder
无稽之言	wu	yan	see 無稽之談|无稽之谈[wu2 ji1 zhi1 tan2]
无稽之谈	wu	tan	(idiom) complete nonsense
无穷大	wu	da	(math.) infinity; infinite
无穷小	wu	xiao	(math.) infinitesimal; infinitely small
无穷序列	wu	lie	infinite sequence
无穷无尽	wu	jin	(idiom) endless; boundless; infinite
无穷远点	wu	dian	point at infinity (math.); infinitely distant point
无穷集	wu	ji	infinite set (math.)
无端端	wu	duan	for no reason
无符号	wu	hao	(computing) unsigned (having no sign bit and representing only non-negative values)
无筋面粉	wu	fen	wheat starch
无精打彩	wu	cai	dull and colorless (idiom); lacking vitality; not lively
无精打采	wu	cai	dispirited and downcast (idiom); listless; in low spirits; washed out
无精症	wu	zheng	azoospermia (medicine)
无纸化	wu	hua	paperless
无纸化办公	wu	gong	paperless office
无线热点	wu	dian	Wi-Fi hotspot
无线电	wu	dian	radio; wireless (i.e. the technology used in radio telecommunication); a radio
无线电广播	wu	bo	radio broadcast
无线电接收机	wu	ji	receiver (radio)
无线电收发机	wu	ji	transceiver; radio frequency receiver, broadcaster or relay
无线电波	wu	bo	radio wave
无线电话	wu	hua	radio telephony; wireless telephone
无线网络	wu	luo	wireless network; Wi-Fi
无线网路	wu	lu	(Tw) wireless network; Wi-Fi
无结网	wu	wang	(textiles) knotless netting
无维度	wu	du	dimensionless (math.)
无缘无故	wu	gu	(idiom) no cause or reason; completely uncalled for
无缝接轨	wu	gui	(Tw) to transition smoothly with no gap, interruption or adjustment period; to move directly from one position, stage or relationship to another; to dovetail seamlessly
无缝连接	wu	jie	seamless connection
无网格法	wu	fa	meshless method (numerical simulation); meshfree method
无罪抗辩	wu	bian	plea of not guilty
无罪推定	wu	ding	presumption of innocence (law)
无能为力	wu	li	(idiom) powerless to do anything about it
无脊椎	wu	zhui	invertebrate
无脊椎动物	wu	wu	invertebrate
无脚蟹	wu	xie	helpless lonely person
无船承运人	wu	ren	non-vessel-owning common carrier (NVOCC) (transportation)
无花果	wu	guo	fig (Ficus carica)
无药可救	wu	jiu	see 無可救藥|无可救药[wu2 ke3 jiu4 yao4]
无菌性	wu	xing	aseptic
无薪假	wu	jia	unpaid leave; leave without pay
无虞匮乏	wu	fa	see 不虞匱乏|不虞匮乏[bu4 yu2 kui4 fa2]
无表情	wu	qing	expressionless; wooden (expression); blank (face)
无衬线	wu	xian	(typography) sans serif
无言以对	wu	dui	to be left speechless; unable to respond
无言可对	wu	dui	unable to reply (idiom); left speechless; at a loss for words
无计可施	wu	shi	(lit.) to have no strategy to apply (idiom); (fig.) to be out of ideas; at one's wit's end
无记名	wu	ming	(of a document) not bearing a name; unregistered (financial securities etc); bearer (bond)
无论何事	wu	shi	anything; whatever
无论何人	wu	ren	whoever
无论何处	wu	chu	anywhere; wherever
无论何时	wu	shi	whenever
无论如何	wu	he	(idiom) whatever the case; in any event; no matter what; by all possible means
无话不说	wu	shuo	(of close friends etc) to tell each other everything
无话不谈	wu	tan	not to hold anything back (idiom); (of close friends etc) to tell each other everything
无话可说	wu	shuo	to have nothing to say (idiom)
无足轻重	wu	zhong	insignificant
无路可走	wu	zou	nowhere to go; at the end of one's tether
无路可退	wu	tui	without a retreat route; caught in a dead end; having burned one's bridges
无路可逃	wu	tao	no way out; nowhere to go; trapped beyond hope of rescue
无轨电车	wu	che	trolleybus
无边无垠	wu	yin	see 無邊無際|无边无际[wu2 bian1 wu2 ji4]
无边无沿	wu	yan	see 無邊無際|无边无际[wu2 bian1 wu2 ji4]
无边无际	wu	ji	(idiom) boundless; limitless
无远弗届	wu	jie	to extend all over the globe (idiom); far-reaching
无连接	wu	jie	connectionless
无迹可寻	wu	xun	(idiom) to leave no trace; to have no detectable clues or signs
无醇啤酒	wu	jiu	low-alcohol beer; non-alcoholic beer (typically, 0.5% ABV or less)
无量寿	wu	shou	boundless life (expression of good wishes); Amitayus, the Buddha of measureless life, good fortune and wisdom
无针注射器	wu	qi	jet injector
无钢圈	wu	quan	wireless (bra)
无钩绦虫	wu	chong	beef tapeworm
无锡市	wu	shi	Wuxi, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
无间地狱	wu	yu	see 阿鼻地獄|阿鼻地狱[A1 bi2 Di4 yu4]
无限制	wu	zhi	limitless; unrestricted
无限小	wu	xiao	infinitesimal; infinitely small
无限小数	wu	shu	infinitesimal; infinite decimal expansion
无限期	wu	qi	indefinitely; of unlimited duration
无限风光在险峰	wu	feng	The boundless vista is at the perilous peak (proverb); fig. exhilaration follows a hard-won victory
无障碍	wu	ai	barrier-free; (esp.) accessible (to people with a disability)
无霜期	wu	qi	frost-free period
无颜见江东父老	wu	lao	(idiom) to be unable to return to one's hometown due to the shame of failure (originally referred to Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3], who chose not to retreat to Jiangdong after his humiliating defeat)
无风三尺浪	wu	lang	lit. large waves in windless conditions (idiom); fig. trouble arising unexpectedly
无风不起浪	wu	lang	lit. without wind there cannot be waves (idiom); there must be a reason; no smoke without fire
无麸质	wu	zhi	gluten-free
无麸质饮食	wu	shi	gluten-free diet
无齿翼龙	wu	long	Pteranodon (genus of pterosaur)
既往不咎	ji	jiu	to forget and not bear recriminations (idiom); to let bygones be bygones; There is no point in crying over spilt milk.
既得利益	ji	yi	vested interest
既得期间	ji	jian	vesting period (in finance)
既成事实	ji	shi	fait accompli
既有今日何必当初	ji	chu	see 早知今日何必當初|早知今日何必当初[zao3 zhi1 jin1 ri4 he2 bi4 dang1 chu1]
既来之则安之	ji	zhi	Since they have come, we should make them comfortable (idiom). Since we're here, take it easy.; Since this is so, we should accept it.; Now we have come, let's stay and take the rough with the smooth.
既视感	ji	gan	déjà vu
日久岁深	ri	shen	(idiom) for a long period of time; for a number of years
日久弥新	ri	xin	see 歷久彌新|历久弥新[li4 jiu3 mi2 xin1]
日久生情	ri	qing	familiarity breeds fondness (idiom)
日人民报	ri	bao	(vulgar) derogatory name (in which 日[ri4] means 肏[cao4]) for the "People's Daily" 人民日報|人民日报[Ren2 min2 Ri4 bao4]
日你妈	ri	ma	see 肏你媽|肏你妈[cao4 ni3 ma1]
日俄战争	ri	zheng	the war of 1904-1905 between Russia and Japan
日偏食	ri	shi	partial eclipse of the sun
日光浴	ri	yu	sunbathing
日光浴室	ri	shi	sun room; solarium
日光浴浴床	ri	chuang	sunbed
日光灯	ri	deng	fluorescent light
日光节约时	ri	shi	daylight saving time
日全食	ri	shi	total eclipse of the sun
日内瓦	ri	wa	Geneva, Switzerland
日冕仪	ri	yi	coronagraph
日冕层	ri	ceng	stellar corona
日出而作日入而息	ri	xi	lit. to get up at sunrise and work until sunset (proverb); fig. to lead a plain and hardworking life
日南郡	ri	jun	Han dynasty province in Vietnam
日喀则	ri	ze	see 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4]
日喀则市	ri	shi	Xigazê, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
日土县	ri	xian	Rutog, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
日复一日	ri	ri	day after day
日夜兼程	ri	cheng	to travel day and night
日常工作	ri	zuo	routine
日式烧肉	ri	rou	yakiniku (Japanese-style grilled meat)
日心说	ri	shuo	heliocentric theory; the theory that the sun is at the center of the universe
日惹特区	ri	qu	Special Region of Yogyakarta, region of Java, Indonesia
日据时代	ri	dai	the era of Japanese occupation
日新月异	ri	yi	daily renewal, monthly change (idiom); every day sees new developments; rapid progress
日无暇晷	ri	gui	no time to spare (idiom)
日晒伤	ri	shang	sunburn
日晒雨淋	ri	lin	lit. exposed to sun and rain (idiom); fig. exposed to the elements
日暮途穷	ri	qiong	sunset, the end of the road (idiom); in terminal decline; at a dead end
日曜日	ri	ri	Sunday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
日月五星	ri	xing	sun, moon and the five visible planets
日月如梭	ri	suo	the sun and moon like a shuttle (idiom); How time flies!
日月晕	ri	yun	halo; ring of light around the sun or moon
日月潭	ri	tan	Sun Moon Lake in Nantou County, Taiwan
日月蹉跎	ri	tuo	the years have slipped by
日月重光	ri	guang	the sun and moon shine once more; fig. things get back to normal after an upheaval
日月食	ri	shi	eclipsis (of the moon or sun)
日本书纪	ri	ji	Nihonshoki or Chronicles of Japan (c. 720) book of mythology and history
日本人	ri	ren	Japanese person
日本共同社	ri	she	Kyōdō, Japanese news agency
日本刀	ri	dao	Japanese sword; katana
日本原子能研究所	ri	suo	Japan Atomic Energy Research Institute
日本叉尾海燕	ri	yan	(bird species of China) Matsudaira's storm petrel (Hydrobates matsudairae)
日本国志	ri	zhi	A Record of Japan, by Huang Zunxian 黃遵憲|黄遵宪[Huang2 Zun1 xian4], an extended analysis of Meiji Japan
日本天皇	ri	huang	Emperor of Japan
日本学	ri	xue	Japanology
日本放送协会	ri	hui	NHK (Nihon Hōsō Kyōkai), Japanese national broadcasting company
日本松雀鹰	ri	ying	(bird species of China) Japanese sparrowhawk (Accipiter gularis)
日本柳莺	ri	ying	(bird species of China) Japanese leaf warbler (Phylloscopus xanthodryas)
日本树莺	ri	ying	(bird species of China) Japanese bush warbler (Horornis diphone)
日本歌鸲	ri	qu	(bird species of China) Japanese robin (Larvivora akahige)
日本沼虾	ri	xia	oriental river prawn (Macrobrachium nipponense), a species of freshwater shrimp, also called 青蝦|青虾[qing1 xia1]
日本海	ri	hai	Sea of Japan
日本电报电话公司	ri	si	Nippon Telegraph and Telephone (NTT)
日本经济新闻	ri	wen	Nikkei Shimbun, Japanese equivalent of Financial Times
日本绣眼鸟	ri	niao	(bird species of China) warbling white-eye (Zosterops japonicus)
日本脑炎	ri	yan	Japanese encephalitis
日本航空	ri	kong	Japan Airlines (JAL)
日本豆腐	ri	fu	egg tofu (a Japanese egg-based delicacy with a smooth, silken texture similar to tofu)
日本银行	ri	hang	Bank of Japan
日本鬼子	ri	zi	Japanese devil (common term of abuse in wartime China and in subsequent writing)
日本鹌鹑	ri	chun	(bird species of China) Japanese quail (Coturnix japonica)
日本鹡鸰	ri	ling	(bird species of China) Japanese wagtail (Motacilla grandis)
日本黑道	ri	dao	Yakuza (Japanese mafia)
日比谷公园	ri	yuan	Hibiya Park in central Tokyo
日治时期	ri	qi	the period of Japanese rule
日活用户	ri	hu	daily active users (of a website, service etc)
日照市	ri	shi	Rizhao, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
日环食	ri	shi	an annular eclipse of the sun
日用品	ri	pin	articles for daily use; CL:件[jian4]
日电电子	ri	zi	NEC (Nippon Electronic Company)
日益增加	ri	jia	to increase daily
日知录	ri	lu	Rizhilu or Record of daily study, by early Confucian philosopher Gu Yanwu 顧炎武|顾炎武
日积月累	ri	lei	to accumulate over a long period of time
日程表	ri	biao	daily schedule
日经平均	ri	jun	Nikkei 225 stock market index
日经平均指数	ri	shu	Nikkei 225 stock market index
日经指数	ri	shu	Nikkei 225 stock market index
日耳曼	ri	man	Germanic
日耳曼语	ri	yu	Germanic language
日英联军	ri	jun	Anglo-Japanese allied army (intervention during Russian revolution and civil war 1917-1922)
日落西山	ri	shan	the sun sets over western hills (idiom); the day approaches its end; fig. time of decline; the end of an era
日薄崦嵫	ri	zi	lit. the sun sets in Yanzi (idiom); fig. the day is drawing to an end; the last days (of a person, a dynasty etc)
日行一善	ri	shan	to do a good deed every day
日记本	ri	ben	diary (book)
日趋严重	ri	zhong	more critical with every passing day
日较差	ri	cha	(meteorology) diurnal range (temperature, humidity etc)
日进斗金	ri	jin	(idiom) to rake in money; to make money hand over fist
旧中国	jiu	guo	old China (pre-1949 China)
旧五代史	jiu	shi	History of the Five Dynasties (between Tang and Song), eighteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Xue Juzheng 薛居正[Xue1 Ju1 zheng4] in 974 during Northern Song 北宋[Bei3 Song4], 150 scrolls
旧体诗	jiu	shi	poetry in the old style
旧历年	jiu	nian	lunar New Year
旧唐书	jiu	shu	History of the Early Tang Dynasty, sixteenth of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Liu Xu 劉昫|刘昫[Liu2 Xu4] in 945 during Later Jin 後晉|后晋[Hou4 Jin4] of the Five Dynasties, 200 scrolls
旧地重游	jiu	you	(idiom) to return to a place after a long time away
旧大陆	jiu	lu	the Old World; Eurasia as opposed to the New World 新大陸|新大陆[xin1 da4 lu4] or the Americas
旧字体	jiu	ti	kyujitai, traditional Japanese character used before 1946
旧态复萌	jiu	meng	see 故態復萌|故态复萌[gu4 tai4 fu4 meng2]
旧愁新恨	jiu	hen	old worries with new hatred added (idiom); afflicted by problems old and new
旧时代	jiu	dai	former times; the olden days
旧景重现	jiu	xian	scenes of the past reappear; evocation of the past
旧民主主义革命	jiu	ming	old democratic revolution; bourgeois revolution (in Marx-Leninist theory, a prelude to the proletarian revolution)
旧热带界	jiu	jie	(biogeography) the Afrotropical realm
旧瓶装新酒	jiu	jiu	lit. new wine in old bottles; fig. new concepts in an old framework; (loan idiom from Matthew 9:17, but fig. meaning is opposite)
旧病复发	jiu	fa	old illness recurs (idiom); a relapse; fig. to repeat an old error; the same old problem
旧的不去新的不来	jiu	lai	lit. If the old doesn't go, the new will not come.; You can't make progress by clinging to old notions.
旧皇历	jiu	li	old calendar; out-of-date customs
旧石器时代	jiu	dai	Paleolithic Era
旧约全书	jiu	shu	Old Testament
旧调子	jiu	zi	old tune; fig. conservative opinion; the same old stuff
旧调重弹	jiu	tan	replaying the same old tunes (idiom); conservative, unoriginal and discredited; to keep harping on about the same old stuff
旧货市场	jiu	chang	sale of second-hand goods; flea market
旧车市场	jiu	chang	second-hand car market; used bike market
旧金山	jiu	shan	San Francisco, California
早上好	zao	hao	Good morning!
早产儿	zao	er	premature baby; preemie
早出晚归	zao	gui	to leave early and return late (idiom)
早午餐	zao	can	brunch
早午饭	zao	fan	brunch
早日康复	zao	fu	to recover health quickly; Get well soon!
早早儿	zao	r	(coll.) as soon as possible; as early as one can
早早班	zao	ban	preschool group for kids aged three or less; (Tw) work shift starting around daybreak
早死早超生	zao	sheng	to end one's suffering by dying quickly and being reincarnated; (fig.) to get it over with
早点儿	zao	r	a bit earlier
早班儿	zao	r	erhua variant of 早班[zao3 ban1]
早生贵子	zao	zi	give birth to a son soon (propitiatory compliment to newlyweds)
早睡早起	zao	qi	early to bed, early to rise; to keep early hours
早知今日何必当初	zao	chu	if I (you, she, he...) had known it would come to this, I (you, she, he...) would not have acted thus (idiom); to regret vainly one's past behavior
早稻田大学	zao	xue	Waseda University (private university in Tokyo)
早老性痴呆	zao	dai	(coll.) Alzheimer's disease
早老素	zao	su	presenilins
早自习	zao	xi	early-morning self-study session (before regular classes); to attend such a session
早鸟优惠	zao	hui	early-bird discount
早鸟票	zao	piao	early-bird ticket
旬输月送	xun	song	pay every ten days, give tribute every month (idiom); incessant and ever more complicated demands
旬邑县	xun	xian	Xunyi, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
旬阳市	xun	shi	Xunyang, a county-level city in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
旮旯儿	ga	r	erhua variant of 旮旯[ga1 la2]
旱涝保收	han	shou	to provide a stable crop, regardless of drought or flood; to bring a stable income
旱金莲	han	lian	garden nasturtium; Tropaeolum majus
旱鸭子	han	zi	non-swimmer
时不再来	shi	lai	Time that has passed will never come back. (idiom)
时不我待	shi	dai	(idiom) time and tide wait for no man
时不时	shi	shi	from time to time
时乖命蹇	shi	jian	bad times, adverse fate (idiom)
时代华纳	shi	na	Time Warner Inc., US media company
时代广场	shi	chang	Times Square
时代曲	shi	qu	shidaiqu, a musical genre that originated in Shanghai in the 1920s, a fusion of Chinese folk music and Western jazz
时光机	shi	ji	time machine
时写时辍	shi	chuo	to write for a bit then give up; to write in fits and starts
时刻准备	shi	bei	ready at any moment
时刻表	shi	biao	timetable; schedule
时势造英雄	shi	xiong	Time makes the man (idiom). The trend of events brings forth the hero.
时大时小	shi	xiao	sometimes big, sometimes small; varying
时好时坏	shi	huai	sometimes good, sometimes bad
时效性	shi	xing	sensitivity to timing; time-sensitive; timeliness
时效法	shi	fa	(law) statute of limitations
时断时续	shi	xu	stopping and starting; intermittent; sporadic
时日无多	shi	duo	time is limited (idiom)
时时刻刻	shi	ke	at all times
时显时隐	shi	yin	appearing and disappearing; intermittently visible
时有所闻	shi	wen	heard from time to time; one keeps hearing that...
时来运转	shi	zhuan	the time comes, fortune turns (idiom); to have a lucky break; things change for the better
时空旅行	shi	xing	time travel
时空穿梭	shi	suo	time travel
时空穿越	shi	yue	time travel
时空胶囊	shi	nang	(Tw) time capsule
时空错置	shi	zhi	having elements from another time or place
时空错置感	shi	gan	sense of being in another time and place; feeling that one has entered a time warp
时至今日	shi	ri	(idiom) up to the present; even now; now (in contrast with the past)
时装剧	shi	ju	contemporary drama
时装秀	shi	xiu	fashion show
时装表演	shi	yan	fashion show
时装鞋	shi	xie	dress shoes
时辰未到	shi	dao	the time has not yet come
时过境迁	shi	qian	things change with the passage of time (idiom)
时运不济	shi	ji	fate is unfavorable (idiom); the omens are not good
时运亨通	shi	tong	our luck is in, everything is going smoothly (idiom)
时钟座	shi	zuo	Horologium (constellation)
时间不早了	shi	le	it's getting late; time's getting on
时间区间	shi	jian	time interval
时间囊	shi	nang	time capsule
时间差	shi	cha	difference in timing; time gap; time lag; (volleyball) timing-gap attack (clipped form of 時間差攻擊|时间差攻击[shi2 jian1 cha1 gong1 ji1]); (by extension) exploitable time gap; advantage arising from a difference in timing
时间差攻击	shi	ji	(volleyball) attacking tactic in which the blocker is induced to commit early, creating an opening for the actual attack
时间序列	shi	lie	time series (stats.)
时间戳	shi	chuo	timestamp
时间是把杀猪刀	shi	dao	lit. time is a butcher's knife; fig. time marches on, relentless and unforgiving; nothing gold can stay
时间测定学	shi	xue	chronometry
时间点	shi	dian	point in time
时间简史	shi	shi	"A Brief History of Time" by Stephen Hawking
时间线	shi	xian	timeline
时间胶囊	shi	nang	time capsule
时间表	shi	biao	schedule; timetable
时间轴	shi	zhou	time axis; timeline
时间进程	shi	cheng	time course
时隐时现	shi	xian	appearing and disappearing (idiom); intermittently visible
旷古未有	kuang	you	never before in the whole of history (idiom); unprecedented
旷古未闻	kuang	wen	never before in the whole of history (idiom); unprecedented; also written 曠古未有|旷古未有
旷日持久	kuang	jiu	protracted (idiom); long and drawn-out
旷时摄影	kuang	ying	time-lapse photography
旺波日山	wang	shan	Mt Wangbur, Dagzê county 達孜縣|达孜县[Da2 zi1 xian4], Lhasa, Tibet
旺炽型	wang	xing	florid (medicine)
旺炽性	wang	xing	florid (medicine)
旺苍县	wang	xian	Wangcang, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
昂仁县	ang	xian	Ngamring, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
昂山素姬	ang	ji	see 昂山素季[Ang2 Shan1 Su4 Ji4]
昂山素季	ang	ji	Aung San Suu Kyi (1945-), Myanmar opposition leader and 1991 Nobel Peace laureate; also written 昂山素姬
昂昂溪	ang	xi	see 昂昂溪區|昂昂溪区[Ang2 ang2 xi1 Qu1]
昂昂溪区	ang	qu	Ang'angxi, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
昂纳克	ang	ke	Honecker (name); Erich Honecker (1912-1994), East German communist politician, party general secretary 1971-1989, tried for treason after German unification
昂船洲	ang	zhou	Stonecutters Island
昂首天外	ang	wai	(idiom) to raise one's head and look towards the heavens; (idiom) arrogant; haughty
昂首挺胸	ang	xiong	head high, chest out (idiom); to keep up one's spirits; in fine mettle (of animal)
昂首阔步	ang	bu	striding forward with head high (idiom); to walk with spirited and vigorous step; to strut
昆仑山	kun	shan	Kunlun Mountain range
昆仑山脉	kun	mai	Kunlun Mountain range
昆士兰	kun	lan	Queensland, northeast Australian state
昆士兰州	kun	zhou	Queensland (Australia)
昆山市	kun	shi	Kunshan, a county-level city in Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
昆明市	kun	shi	Kunming, prefecture-level city and capital of Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
昆明湖	kun	hu	Kunming Lake
昆虫学	kun	xue	entomology
昆都仑	kun	lun	see 昆都侖區|昆都仑区[Kun1 du1 lun2 Qu1]
昆都仑区	kun	qu	Hondlon, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
昌乐县	chang	xian	Changle, a county in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
昌原市	chang	shi	Changwon City, capital of South Gyeongsang Province 慶尚南道|庆尚南道[Qing4 shang4 nan2 dao4], South Korea
昌吉回族自治州	chang	zhou	Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture, in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
昌吉州	chang	zhou	see 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
昌吉市	chang	shi	Changji, a county-level city in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
昌图县	chang	xian	Changtu, a county in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
昌宁县	chang	xian	Changning, a county in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
昌平区	chang	qu	Changping, a district of Beijing
昌江区	chang	qu	Changjiang, a district of Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
昌江县	chang	xian	Changjiang Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
昌江黎族自治县	chang	xian	Changjiang Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
昌迪加尔	chang	er	Chandighar, capital of Punjab state of northwest India
昌邑区	chang	qu	Changyi, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
昌邑市	chang	shi	Changyi, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
昌都市	chang	shi	Qamdo, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
昌黎县	chang	xian	Changli, a county in Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
明争暗斗	ming	dou	(idiom) to fight openly and maneuver covertly
明人不做暗事	ming	shi	an honest person does not act surreptitiously (idiom)
明仁宗	ming	zong	Ming Renzong, temple name of fourth Ming emperor Zhu Gaochi 朱高熾|朱高炽[Zhu1 Gao1 chi4]
明信片	ming	pian	postcard
明修栈道暗渡陈仓	ming	cang	lit. repair the plank road by day while secretly crossing the Wei River 渭河[Wei4 He2] at Chencang (idiom, refers to a stratagem used by Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] in 206 BC against Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3] of Chu); fig. to feign one thing while doing another; to cheat under cover of a diversion
明儿个	ming	ge	(coll.) tomorrow
明光市	ming	shi	Mingguang, a county-level city in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
明光度	ming	du	luminosity
明十三陵	ming	ling	the Ming tombs (mausoleum park of the Ming emperors in Changping district of Beijing)
明升暗降	ming	jiang	(idiom) to kick sb upstairs
明厨亮灶	ming	zao	"transparent kitchen" – a kitchen (in a restaurant, school cafeteria etc) in which food preparation processes are made visible to customers (by means of transparent glass, live video etc) to promote hygiene and ensure accountability in food safety practices
明古鲁	ming	lu	Bengkulu (Indonesian town on the south coast of Sumatra)
明古鲁市	ming	shi	Bengkulu (Indonesian town on the south coast of Sumatra)
明哲保身	ming	shen	a wise man looks after his own hide (idiom); to put one's own safety before matters of principle
明天启	ming	qi	Tianqi Emperor, reign name of fifteenth Ming emperor Zhu Youxiao 朱由校[Zhu1 You2 xiao4] (1605-1627), reigned 1620-1627, temple name 明熹宗[Ming2 Xi1 zong1]
明天见	ming	jian	see you tomorrow; (coll., jocular) food that passes through the digestive system more or less intact (esp. enoki mushrooms)
明太祖	ming	zu	Ming Taizu, temple name of first Ming emperor Hongwu 洪武[Hong2 wu3]
明媒正娶	ming	qu	to be officially wed
明孝陵	ming	ling	Ming tombs in Nanjing, tomb of founding Ming emperor Zhu Yuanzhang 朱元璋[Zhu1 Yuan2 zhang1], a World Heritage site
明实录	ming	lu	Ming Veritable Records, imperial annals of the emperors of the Ming Dynasty
明宣宗	ming	zong	temple name of fifth Ming emperor Xuande 宣德[Xuan1 de2]
明察暗访	ming	fang	open enquiries and secret search (idiom); to investigate openly and in secret; taking information from all sides
明察秋毫	ming	hao	lit. seeing clearly the downy feathers of autumn (idiom, from Mencius); fig. perceptive of even the finest detail
明尼苏达	ming	da	Minnesota, USA
明尼苏达州	ming	zhou	Minnesota
明尼阿波利斯	ming	si	Minneapolis, a nameplace in the USA, notably in Minnesota
明山区	ming	qu	Mingshan, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
明岗暗哨	ming	shao	both covert and undercover (officers) keeping watch (idiom)
明德学院	ming	yuan	Middlebury College, private liberal arts college in Middlebury, Vermont
明成祖	ming	zu	Ming Chengzu, temple name of third Ming Emperor Yongle 永樂|永乐[Yong3 le4]
明摆着	ming	zhe	evident; clear; undoubted
明文规定	ming	ding	expressly stipulated (in writing)
明斯克	ming	ke	Minsk, capital of Belarus
明日黄花	ming	hua	lit. chrysanthemums after the Double Ninth Festival (idiom); fig. outdated; thing of the past
明晃晃	ming	huang	shining; bright
明智之举	ming	ju	sensible act
明月清风	ming	feng	see 清風明月|清风明月[qing1 feng1 ming2 yue4]
明朝体	ming	ti	Mincho font
明枪好躲暗箭难防	ming	fang	see 明槍易躲，暗箭難防|明枪易躲，暗箭难防[ming2 qiang1 yi4 duo3 , an4 jian4 nan2 fang2]
明枪易躲暗箭难防	ming	fang	lit. easy to dodge the spear in the open, hard to avoid a stab in the dark (idiom); it is hard to guard against secret conspiracies
明查暗访	ming	fang	variant of 明察暗訪|明察暗访[ming2 cha2 an4 fang3]
明武宗	ming	zong	Ming Wuzong, temple name of eleventh Ming emperor Zhengde 正德[Zheng4 de2]
明水县	ming	xian	Mingshui, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
明治维新	ming	xin	Meiji Restoration (Japan, 1868)
明溪县	ming	xian	Mingxi, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
明熹宗	ming	zong	Ming Xizong, temple name of fifteenth Ming emperor Tianqi 明天啟|明天启[Ming2 Tian1 qi3]
明珠暗投	ming	tou	to cast pearls before swine (idiom); not to get proper recognition for one's talents
明目张胆	ming	dan	openly and without fear; brazenly
明眸皓齿	ming	chi	to have bright eyes and white teeth
明眼人	ming	ren	perspicacious person; sb with a discerning eye; sighted person (as opposed to blind)
明知故犯	ming	fan	deliberate violation (idiom); intentional crime
明知故问	ming	wen	(idiom) to ask a question, already knowing the answer
明窗净几	ming	ji	lit. clear window and clean table (idiom); fig. bright and clean (room)
明细表	ming	biao	schedule; subsidiary ledger; a detailed list
明辨是非	ming	fei	to distinguish right and wrong (idiom)
明达事理	ming	li	reasonable; sensible
明里暗里	ming	li	both publicly and privately; both overtly and secretly; both explicitly and implicitly
明镜高悬	ming	xuan	perspicacious and impartial in judgment (idiom)
昏天黑地	hun	di	lit. dark sky and black earth (idiom); fig. pitch dark; to black out
昏头昏脑	hun	nao	confused; dizzy; fainting
昏定晨省	hun	xing	seeing to bed in the evening and visiting in the morning (ancient filial duty)
昏昏欲睡	hun	shui	drowsy; sleepy (idiom)
昏昏沉沉	hun	chen	(idiom) dizzy
昏睡病	hun	bing	sleeping sickness; African trypanosomiasis; see also 非洲錐蟲病|非洲锥虫病[Fei1 zhou1 zhui1 chong2 bing4]
昏过去	hun	qu	to faint
昏迷不醒	hun	xing	to remain unconscious
易于反掌	yi	zhang	see 易如反掌[yi4 ru2 fan3 zhang3]
易初莲花	yi	hua	Lotus (department store chain)
易北河	yi	he	Elbe River
易卜拉欣	yi	xin	(name) Ibrahim or Ebrahim; Ibrahim, a revered prophet in Islam, known as Abraham in the Judeo-Christian tradition
易卜生	yi	sheng	Henrik Ibsen (1828-1906), Norwegian dramatist, author of Doll's House 玩偶之家
易取得	yi	de	accessible
易变质	yi	zhi	perishable
易司马仪	yi	yi	Ismail (name); Shāh Ismāil I (1487-1524), founder of Persian Safavid dynasty, reigned 1501-1524
易如反掌	yi	zhang	easy as a hand's turn (idiom); very easy; no effort at all
易如翻掌	yi	zhang	see 易如反掌[yi4 ru2 fan3 zhang3]
易守难攻	yi	gong	easily guarded, hard to attack
易建联	yi	lian	Yi Jianlian (1987-), Chinese basketball player for the New Jersey Nets (NBA)
易开罐	yi	guan	(Tw) pull-top can; easy-open can (with ring-pull)
易拉宝	yi	bao	roll-up banner stand
易拉罐	yi	guan	pull-top can; easy-open can (with ring-pull)
易挥发	yi	fa	volatile
易损性	yi	xing	vulnerability
易接近	yi	jin	accessible
易洛魁	yi	kui	Iroquois
易游网	yi	wang	ezTravel, Taiwanese travel agency
易激惹	yi	re	irritable
易燃物	yi	wu	flammable substance
易燃物品	yi	pin	flammable articles
易理解	yi	jie	easy to grasp; easily understood
易用性	yi	xing	ease of use; usability
易科罚金	yi	jin	to commute a prison sentence to a fine (Tw)
易腐败	yi	bai	perishable
易蒙停	yi	ting	Imodium (drug brand name); loperamide (used to treat diarrhea)
易言之	yi	zhi	in other words
易门县	yi	xian	Yimen, a county in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
易饥症	yi	zheng	bulimia
昔阳县	xi	xian	Xiyang, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
昙花一现	tan	xian	lit. the night-blooming cactus shows once; flash in the pan (idiom); short-lived
星二代	xing	dai	children of celebrities
星云表	xing	biao	catalog of stars and nebulae
星冰乐	xing	le	Frappuccino
星命家	xing	jia	astrologer (esp. Daoist)
星型网	xing	wang	Star network
星头啄木鸟	xing	niao	(bird species of China) grey-capped pygmy woodpecker (Yungipicus canicapillus)
星宿海	xing	hai	Xingxiuhai Basin in Qinghai, more than 4000m above sea level, featuring numerous lakes large and small
星岛日报	xing	bao	Sing Tao Daily, Hong Kong newspaper
星巴克	xing	ke	Starbucks, US coffee shop chain
星座运势	xing	shi	(Western-style) horoscope
星星之火	xing	huo	a single spark (idiom); an insignificant cause can have a massive effect
星星之火可以燎原	xing	yuan	a single spark can start a huge blaze (idiom); an insignificant cause can have a massive effect
星期一	xing	yi	Monday
星期三	xing	san	Wednesday
星期二	xing	er	Tuesday
星期五	xing	wu	Friday
星期六	xing	liu	Saturday
星期几	xing	ji	which day of the week
星期四	xing	si	Thursday
星期天	xing	tian	Sunday
星期日	xing	ri	Sunday
星条旗	xing	qi	Stars and Stripes, the flag of the United States
星洲日报	xing	bao	Sin Chew Daily, Malaysian newspaper
星流霆击	xing	ji	meteor shower and violent thunderclaps (idiom); omens of violent development; portentous signs
星海争霸	xing	ba	StarCraft (video game series) (Tw)
星球大战	xing	zhan	Star Wars
星相十足	xing	zu	(coll.) to look every bit the big star
星相图	xing	tu	star chart
星相学	xing	xue	astrology
星相家	xing	jia	astrologer
星相师	xing	shi	astrologer
星相术	xing	shu	astrology
星移斗转	xing	zhuan	lit. the Big Dipper 北斗星[Bei3 dou3 xing1] has turned and the stars have moved; time flies; also written 斗轉星移|斗转星移[Dou3 zhuan3 xing1 yi2]
星系盘	xing	pan	galactic disc
星罗棋布	xing	bu	scattered about like stars in the sky or chess pieces on a board (idiom); spread all over the place
星象图	xing	tu	star chart; also written 星相圖|星相图
星际争霸	xing	ba	StarCraft (video game series)
星际大战	xing	zhan	(Tw) Star Wars
星际旅行	xing	xing	Star Trek (US TV and film series)
星马泰	xing	tai	Singapore, Malaysia and Thailand (abbr. for 新加坡[Xin1 jia1 po1], aka 星洲[Xing1 zhou1] + 馬來西亞|马来西亚[Ma3 lai2 xi1 ya4] + 泰國|泰国[Tai4 guo2])
映像管	ying	guan	CRT (cathode ray tube) used in a computer monitor or TV, aka picture tube (Tw); kinescope
映入眼帘	ying	lian	(idiom) to greet the eye; to come into view
映入脑海	ying	hai	to come to mind; to come to one's attention
映射过程	ying	cheng	mapping process
映山红	ying	hong	Indian azalea (Rhododendron simsii)
映象文件	ying	jian	(computing) disk image (aka image file); ISO image
春光乍泄	chun	xie	spring sunshine emerges to bring the world alive (idiom); to give a glimpse of sth intimate (e.g. one's underwear)
春光明媚	chun	mei	lovely spring sunshine
春分点	chun	dian	the spring equinox
春夏秋冬	chun	dong	the four seasons; spring, summer, autumn and winter
春大麦	chun	mai	spring barley
春川市	chun	shi	Chuncheon city, capital of Gangwon province 江原道[Jiang1 yuan2 dao4], South Korea
春日部	chun	bu	Kasukabe (city in Japan)
春暖花开	chun	kai	(lit.) springtime when the weather is warm and flowers are in bloom (idiom); (fig.) a time of renewal and flourishing
春柳剧场	chun	chang	Spring Willow Society, pioneering Chinese theatrical company set up in Tokyo in 1906, part of New Culture Movement 新文化運動|新文化运动[Xin1 Wen2 hua4 Yun4 dong4], continued in China from 1912 as 新劇同志會|新剧同志会[Xin1 ju4 Tong2 zhi4 hui4]
春柳社	chun	she	Spring Willow Society, pioneering Chinese theatrical company set up in Tokyo in 1906, part of New Culture Movement 新文化運動|新文化运动[Xin1 Wen2 hua4 Yun4 dong4], continued in China from 1912 as 新劇同志會|新剧同志会[Xin1 ju4 Tong2 zhi4 hui4]
春武里府	chun	fu	Chonburi province of east Thailand
春江水暖鸭先知	chun	zhi	lit. the duck is the first to know if the spring water is warm (idiom); fig. an expert in the field knows which way the wind blows
春江花月夜	chun	ye	River on a spring night, long yuefu poem by 張若虛|张若虚[Zhang1 Ruo4 xu1]
春灯谜	chun	mi	Spring lantern riddles (guessing game at Lantern Festival 元宵節|元宵节, at the end of Spring festival 春節|春节)
春生夏长秋收冬藏	chun	cang	sow in spring, develop in summer, harvest in autumn, store in winter (idiom)
春秋三传	chun	zhuan	Three Commentaries on the Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], including Mr Gongyang's annals 公羊傳|公羊传[Gong1 yang2 Zhuan4], Mr Guliang's annals 穀梁傳|谷梁传[Gu3 liang2 Zhuan4] and Mr Zuo's annals or Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4]
春秋五霸	chun	ba	the Five Hegemons of the Spring and Autumn period (770-476 BC), namely: Duke Huan of Qi 齊桓公|齐桓公[Qi2 Huan2 gong1], Duke Wen of Jin 晉文公|晋文公[Jin4 Wen2 gong1], King Zhuang of Chu 楚莊王|楚庄王[Chu3 Zhuang1 wang2], and alternatively Duke Xiang of Song 宋襄公[Song4 Xiang1 gong1] and Duke Mu of Qin 秦穆公[Qin2 Mu4 gong1] or King Helu of Wu 吳王闔閭|吴王阖闾[Wu2 wang2 He2 Lu:2] and King Gou Jian of Yue 越王勾踐|越王勾践[Yue4 wang2 Gou1 Jian4]
春秋大梦	chun	meng	grand dreams; unrealistic ideas (idiom)
春秋左氏传	chun	zhuan	Mr Zuo's Spring and Autumn Annals, attributed to famous blind historian Zuo Qiuming 左丘明[Zuo3 Qiu1 ming2]; usually called Zuo Zhuan 左傳|左传[Zuo3 Zhuan4]
春秋战国	chun	guo	the Spring and Autumn (770-476 BC) and Warring States (475-221 BC) periods
春秋战国时代	chun	dai	the Spring and Autumn (770-476 BC) and Warring States (475-221 BC) periods; Eastern Zhou (770-221 BC)
春秋时代	chun	dai	Spring and Autumn Period (770-476 BC)
春秋繁露	chun	lu	Luxuriant Dew of the Spring and Autumn Annals, ideological tract by Han dynasty political philosopher Dong Zhongshu 董仲舒[Dong3 Zhong4 shu1]
春秋鼎盛	chun	sheng	the prime of one's life
春节联欢晚会	chun	hui	CCTV New Year's Gala, Chinese New Year special; abbr. to 春晚[Chun1 Wan3]
春风一度	chun	du	to have sexual intercourse (once)
春风化雨	chun	yu	lit. spring wind and rain (idiom); fig. the long-term influence of a solid education
春风和气	chun	qi	(idiom) amiable as a spring breeze
春风得意	chun	yi	flushed with success; proud of one's success (in exams, promotion etc); as pleased as punch
春风深醉的晚上	chun	shang	Intoxicating Spring Nights, 1924 short story by Yu Dafu 郁達夫|郁达夫[Yu4 Da2 fu1]
春风满面	chun	mian	see 滿面春風|满面春风[man3 mian4 chun1 feng1]
春黄菊	chun	ju	yellow chrysanthemum; chamomile (Anthemis spp.)
春黄菊属	chun	shu	Anthemis, genus of flowers in Compositae including chamomile
昧良心	mei	xin	it goes against one's conscience
昨儿个	zuo	ge	(coll.) yesterday
昭化区	zhao	qu	Zhaohua, a district of Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
昭平县	zhao	xian	Zhaoping, a county in Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
昭披耶帕康	zhao	kang	Chao Phraya Phra Klang (Royal Finance and External Affairs Minister), the honorary title of the 18th century official of the royal court of Thailand who translated 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4] (Romance of the Three Kingdoms) into Thai
昭披耶河	zhao	he	Chao Phraya River, the main river of Thailand
昭然若揭	zhao	jie	abundantly clear
昭苏县	zhao	xian	Zhaosu, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
昭觉县	zhao	xian	Zhaojue, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
昭通市	zhao	shi	Zhaotong, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
昭阳区	zhao	qu	Zhaoyang, a district of Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
是不是	shi	shi	is or is not (used to form yes-no questions)
是可忍孰不可忍	shi	ren	if this can be tolerated, what cannot? (idiom); enough is enough
是味儿	shi	r	(of food) to have the right taste; (of people) to feel at ease
是德科技	shi	ji	Keysight Technologies (instrumentation company)
是拉差	shi	cha	sriracha (loanword)
是药三分毒	shi	du	every medicine has its side effect
是非不分	shi	fen	unable to distinguish right and wrong (idiom)
是非之地	shi	di	trouble spot; sketchy area
是非分明	shi	ming	to distinguish right from wrong (idiom)
是非曲直	shi	zhi	lit. right and wrong, crooked and straight (idiom); fig. merits and demerits; pros and cons
是非自有公论	shi	lun	to determine right and wrong based on public opinion (idiom); Public opinion will judge what's right and wrong.
是非莫辨	shi	bian	unable to distinguish right and wrong (idiom)
昴宿星团	mao	tuan	Pleiades M45
昴星团	mao	tuan	Pleiades M45
昼伏夜出	zhou	chu	nocturnal; to hide by day and come out at night
昼夜平分点	zhou	dian	the equinox
昼夜节律	zhou	lv	circadian rhythm
昼行性	zhou	xing	diurnality; diurnal
显像管	xian	guan	CRT used in TV or computer monitor; picture tube; kinescope
显山露水	xian	shui	to reveal one's talent (idiom)
显影剂	xian	ji	developer (photographic processing); contrast medium (medical imaging)
显微学	xian	xue	microscopy
显微解剖学	xian	xue	(medicine) histology; microscopic anatomy
显微镜	xian	jing	microscope; CL:臺|台[tai2]
显微镜座	xian	zuo	Microscopium (constellation)
显性基因	xian	yin	dominant gene
显生代	xian	dai	Phanerozoic, geological eon lasting since the Cambrian 寒武紀|寒武纪[Han2 wu3 ji4], c. 540m year ago
显生宙	xian	zhou	Phanerozoic, geological eon lasting since the Cambrian 寒武紀|寒武纪[Han2 wu3 ji4], c. 540m year ago
显示卡	xian	ka	graphics card
显示器	xian	qi	display device; monitor
显示屏	xian	ping	display screen
显示板	xian	ban	information screen
显而易见	xian	jian	clearly and easy to see (idiom); obviously; clearly; it goes without saying
显花植物	xian	wu	Phanerogamae (botany); flowering plants
显赫人物	xian	wu	a famous person; a luminary
显露出	xian	chu	to reveal (a quality or feeling); to manifest; to evince
晃晃悠悠	huang	you	swaying; wobbling
晋中市	jin	shi	Jinzhong, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
晋城市	jin	shi	Jincheng, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
晋宁区	jin	qu	Jinning, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
晋安区	jin	qu	Jin'an, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
晋察冀	jin	ji	Shanxi 山西[Shan1 xi1], Chahar 察哈爾|察哈尔[Cha2 ha1 er3] and Hebei 河北[He2 bei3] (three provinces of the Republic of China in the period 1912-1936)
晋州市	jin	shi	Jinzhou, a county-level city in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
晋惠帝	jin	di	Emperor Hui of Jin (259-307), personal name 司馬衷|司马衷[Si1 ma3 Zhong1], 2nd emperor of Jin Dynasty 晉朝|晋朝[Jin4 chao2], reigned 290-307
晋文公	jin	gong	Duke Wen of Jin (697-628 BC, reigned 636-628 BC), one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸[Chun1 qiu1 Wu3 ba4]
晋江市	jin	shi	Jinjiang, a county-level city in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
晋源区	jin	qu	Jinyuan, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
晏子春秋	yan	qiu	Tales of Yanzi, book describing the life and wisdom of Yanzi 晏子 (-c 500 BC), famous statesman from Qi of the Warring States
晏平仲	yan	zhong	another name for Yan Ying 晏嬰|晏婴[Yan4 Ying1] or Yanzi 晏子[Yan4 zi3] (-500 BC), famous statesman from Qi of the Warring States 齊國|齐国[Qi2 guo2]
晒太阳	shai	yang	to be in the sun (getting warm or sunbathing etc); to put sth in the sun (e.g. to dry it)
晒娃族	shai	zu	(coll.) sharent
晒衣绳	shai	sheng	clothesline
晒骆驼	shai	tuo	xylitol (Cantonese); see also 木糖醇[mu4 tang2 chun2]
晓以大义	xiao	yi	(idiom) to persuade by appealing to principle; to reason with sb on moral grounds
晕头转向	yun	xiang	confused and disoriented
晕血症	yun	zheng	blood phobia
晕高儿	yun	r	to feel giddy on heights; vertigo
晚上好	wan	hao	Good evening!
晚半天儿	wan	r	late afternoon
晚婚晚育	wan	yu	to marry and give birth late
晚期癌症	wan	zheng	terminal cancer
晚礼服	wan	fu	evening dress
晚自习	wan	xi	scheduled evening self-study period; evening study hall
晚节不保	wan	bao	(idiom) to tarnish one's reputation in later life; to lose prestige at a later stage
晨昏定省	chen	xing	morning and evening visits to parents; cf 昏定晨省[hun1 ding4 chen2 xing3]
晨钟暮鼓	chen	gu	lit. morning bell, evening drum, symbolizing monastic practice (idiom); fig. encouragement to study or progress
普什图语	pu	yu	Pashtu (one of the languages of Afghanistan)
普信男	pu	nan	(neologism, attested by 2020) an ordinary guy who imagines he is God's gift to womankind
普兰县	pu	xian	Purang, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
普兰店	pu	dian	see 普蘭店區|普兰店区[Pu3 lan2 dian4 Qu1]
普兰店区	pu	qu	Pulandian, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
普列谢茨克	pu	ke	Plesetsk, settlement in Arkhangelsk Oblast, Russia
普利司通	pu	tong	Bridgestone (tire company)
普利托里亚	pu	ya	Pretoria, capital of South Africa (Tw)
普利策奖	pu	jiang	Pulitzer Prize
普利茅斯	pu	si	Plymouth
普加乔夫	pu	fu	Yemelyan Ivanovich Pugachov (1742-1775), Russian Cossack, leader of peasant rebellion 1773-1775 against Catherine the Great
普埃布拉	pu	la	Puebla, a city southeast of Mexico City; term used to refer to plants whose specific epithet is pueblensis, such as Tillandsia pueblensis (an air plant) and Echeveria pueblensis (a succulent)
普外科	pu	ke	(medicine) general surgery (abbr. for 普通外科[pu3 tong1 wai4 ke1])
普天下	pu	xia	throughout the world
普天之下	pu	xia	(idiom) all under heaven; in the whole world; throughout the world
普天同庆	pu	qing	everybody celebrating together; universal celebration; universal rejoicing
普契尼	pu	ni	Puccini
普宁市	pu	shi	Puning, a county-level city in Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
普安县	pu	xian	Pu'an, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
普定县	pu	xian	Puding, a county in Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
普尔热瓦尔斯基	pu	ji	Nikolai Mikhailovich Przevalski (1839-1888), Russian explorer who made four expeditions to Central Asian from 1870; abbr. to 普氏
普布斯	pu	si	Tillandsia pueblensis, a species of air plants
普希金	pu	jin	Alexandr Sergeevich Pushkin (1799-1837), great Russian romantic poet
普度众生	pu	sheng	(Buddhism) to deliver all living creatures from suffering (idiom)
普拉亚	pu	ya	Praia, capital of Cape Verde
普拉提	pu	ti	Pilates (physical fitness system)
普拉提斯	pu	si	see 普拉提[Pu3 la1 ti2]
普拉达	pu	da	Prada (brand)
普普艺术	pu	shu	(Tw) (loanword) pop art
普普通通	pu	tong	ordinary; mediocre; nothing special
普朗克	pu	ke	Max Planck (1858-1947), German physicist
普朗克常数	pu	shu	(physics) Planck's constant h, approximately 6.626 x 10⁻³⁴ joule.seconds
普林斯顿	pu	dun	Princeton, New Jersey
普林斯顿大学	pu	xue	Princeton University
普格县	pu	xian	Puge, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
普氏小羚羊	pu	yang	Przevalski's gazelle (Procapra przewalskii) of Central Asia
普氏立克次体	pu	ti	Rickettsia prowazekii
普氏野马	pu	ma	Przevalski horse (Equus przewalskii) wild horse of Central Asia first identified in 1881 by Nikolai Mikhailovich Przevalski 普爾熱瓦爾斯基|普尔热瓦尔斯基
普法战争	pu	zheng	Franco-Prussian War (1870-1871)
普洱市	pu	shi	Pu'er, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
普洱茶	pu	cha	Pu'er tea, a type of black tea produced in the Pu'er region of southwestern Yunnan
普济众生	pu	sheng	universal mercy and succor (idiom); the Buddha's infinite power and mercy
普渡大学	pu	xue	Purdue University
普立兹奖	pu	jiang	Pulitzer Prize (Tw)
普米族	pu	zu	Pumi ethnic group
普罗列塔利亚	pu	ya	proletariat (loanword)
普罗大众	pu	zhong	proletariat; abbr. for 普羅列塔利亞|普罗列塔利亚[pu3 luo2 lie4 ta3 li4 ya4] plus masses; also written 無產階級|无产阶级[wu2 chan3 jie1 ji2] in PRC Marxist theory
普罗夫迪夫	pu	fu	Plovdiv, city in Bulgaria
普罗扎克	pu	ke	Prozac (also marketed as Fluoxetine)
普罗提诺	pu	nuo	Plotinus (204-270), Neoplatonism philosopher
普罗旺斯	pu	si	Provence (south of France)
普罗旺斯语	pu	yu	Provençal (language)
普罗科菲夫	pu	fu	Sergei Prokofiev (1891-1953), Russian composer
普罗米修斯	pu	si	Prometheus, a Titan god of fire in Greek mythology
普罗维登斯	pu	si	Providence, capital of Rhode Island
普罗迪	pu	di	(surname) Prodi
普莱斯	pu	si	Price (name)
普莱费尔	pu	er	(surname) Playfair
普萘洛尔	pu	er	propranolol (beta-blocker used to treat high blood pressure)
普贤菩萨	pu	sa	Samantabhadra, the Buddhist Lord of Truth
普选权	pu	quan	universal suffrage
普通中学	pu	xue	general middle school
普通人	pu	ren	ordinary person; private citizen; people
普通名词	pu	ci	common noun (grammar)
普通夜鹰	pu	ying	(bird species of China) grey nightjar (Caprimulgus jotaka)
普通教育	pu	yu	general education
普通朱雀	pu	que	(bird species of China) common rosefinch (Carpodacus erythrinus)
普通楼燕	pu	yan	(bird species of China) common swift (Apus apus)
普通民众	pu	zhong	ordinary people; the masses
普通法	pu	fa	common law
普通海鸥	pu	ou	(bird species of China) common gull (Larus canus)
普通潜鸟	pu	niao	(bird species of China) common loon (Gavia immer)
普通燕鸥	pu	ou	(bird species of China) common tern (Sterna hirundo)
普通燕鸻	pu	heng	(bird species of China) oriental pratincole (Glareola maldivarum)
普通秋沙鸭	pu	ya	(bird species of China) common merganser (Mergus merganser)
普通秧鸡	pu	ji	(bird species of China) brown-cheeked rail (Rallus indicus)
普通翠鸟	pu	niao	(bird species of China) common kingfisher (Alcedo atthis)
普通老百姓	pu	xing	common people; average people; hoi polloi
普通股	pu	gu	common stock
普通角闪石	pu	shi	hornblende (rock-forming mineral, type of amphibole)
普通话	pu	hua	Putonghua; standard Mandarin
普通话水平测试	pu	shi	Putonghua Proficiency Test, an official test of spoken fluency in Standard Chinese for native speakers of Chinese languages, developed in the PRC in 1994
普通赤杨	pu	yang	alder tree (Alnus glutinosa)
普通车	pu	che	local train; ordinary vehicle
普通高中	pu	zhong	general academic senior high school (as opposed to vocational high schools)
普通鸬鹚	pu	ci	(bird species of China) great cormorant (Phalacrocorax carbo)
普通鹰鹃	pu	juan	(bird species of China) common hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx varius)
普遍化	pu	hua	generalization (logic)
普遍性	pu	xing	ubiquity; universality
普遍性假设	pu	she	universal hypothesis
普里什蒂纳	pu	na	Pristina, capital of Kosovo 科索沃
普里切特	pu	te	Pratchett (name)
普陀区	pu	qu	Putuo district, central Shanghai; Putuo district of Zhoushan city 舟山市[Zhou1 shan1 shi4], Zhejiang
普陀山	pu	shan	Mt Potala at Zhoushan 舟山市 in Zhejiang, one of the Four Sacred Mountains and Bodhimanda of Guanyin 觀音|观音 (Avalokiteśvara)
普雷克斯流程	pu	cheng	purex
普雷斯堡	pu	bao	Pressburg (Slovakia)
普雷斯顿	pu	dun	Preston, city in England
普鲁东	pu	dong	Pierre-Joseph Proudhon (1809-1865), French socialist philosopher
普鲁东主义	pu	yi	Proudhonism, 19th century socialist theory
普鲁卡因	pu	yin	procaine (nerve blocking agent) (loanword)
普鲁士	pu	shi	Prussia (historical German state)
普鲁斯特	pu	te	Marcel Proust (1871-1922), French author
景东县	jing	xian	see 景東彝族自治縣|景东彝族自治县[Jing3 dong1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
景东彝族自治县	jing	xian	Jingdong Yi Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
景宁县	jing	xian	see 景寧畲族自治縣|景宁畲族自治县[Jing3 ning2 She1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
景宁畲族自治县	jing	xian	Jingning She Autonomous County, in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
景山公园	jing	yuan	Jingshan Park (park in Beijing)
景德镇	jing	zhen	see 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4]
景德镇市	jing	shi	Jingdezhen, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
景泰县	jing	xian	Jingtai, a county in Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
景泰蓝	jing	lan	cloisonne; cloisonné
景洪市	jing	shi	Jinghong, a county-level city in Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
景福宫	jing	gong	Gyeongbokgung palace in central Seoul
景观设计	jing	ji	landscape design
景谷傣族彝族自治县	jing	xian	Jinggu Dai and Yi Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
景谷县	jing	xian	see 景谷傣族彝族自治縣|景谷傣族彝族自治县[Jing3 gu3 Dai3 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
景颇族	jing	zu	Jingpo ethnic group
晴天娃娃	qing	wa	teru teru bōzu (traditional Japanese doll hung outside windows in hope of sunny weather)
晴天霹雳	qing	li	lit. thunderclap from a clear sky (idiom); fig. a bolt from the blue
晴时多云	qing	yun	mostly sunny; mostly clear (meteorology)
晴空万里	qing	li	a clear and boundless sky
晴隆县	qing	xian	Qinglong, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
晴雨表	qing	biao	(lit. and fig.) barometer
晶体管	jing	guan	transistor
晶体结构	jing	gou	crystal structure
晶状体	jing	ti	lens; crystalline lens
晶闸管	jing	guan	(electronics) silicon-controlled rectifier (SCR); thyristor
智力低下	zhi	xia	mental retardation
智力测验	zhi	yan	intelligence test
智力玩具	zhi	ju	educational toy
智商税	zhi	shui	stupid tax; unwise purchase
智囊团	zhi	tuan	think tank; brain trust
智囊机构	zhi	gou	think tank; brain trust
智多星	zhi	xing	resourceful person; mastermind
智异山	zhi	shan	Jirisan or Mount Chiri, mountain in the south of South Korea
智性恋	zhi	lian	sapiosexuality
智慧产权	zhi	quan	intellectual property
智慧型手机	zhi	ji	smartphone (Tw)
智慧财产	zhi	chan	intellectual property (Tw)
智慧齿	zhi	chi	wisdom tooth
智珠在握	zhi	wo	lit. to hold the pearl of wisdom (idiom); fig. to be endowed with extraordinary intelligence
智神星	zhi	xing	Pallas, an asteroid, discovered in 1802 by H.W. Olbers
智者千虑必有一失	zhi	shi	lit. a wise person reflecting a thousand times can still make a mistake (idiom); fig. nobody is infallible
智能体	zhi	ti	(computing) intelligent agent; AI agent
智能卡	zhi	ka	smart card
智能手机	zhi	ji	smartphone
智能手表	zhi	biao	smartwatch
智能设计	zhi	ji	intelligent design (religion)
智能障碍	zhi	ai	intellectual disability; cognitive disability; learning disability
智障人士	zhi	shi	person with learning difficulties (handicap); retarded person
晾衣夹	liang	jia	clothes pin
晾衣架	liang	jia	clothes drying rack
晾衣绳	liang	sheng	clothesline
暂住证	zan	zheng	temporary residence permit
暂停键	zan	jian	pause button
暑期学校	shu	xiao	summer school
暖宝宝	nuan	bao	hand warmer
暖巢管家	nuan	jia	housekeeper who looks after old people with no children or whose children do not live with them
暖手宝	nuan	bao	hand warmer
暖暖包	nuan	bao	(Tw) disposable hand warmer
暖暖区	nuan	qu	Nuannuan District of Keelung City 基隆市[Ji1 long2 Shi4], Taiwan
暖气机	nuan	ji	radiator; heater
暖气片	nuan	pian	radiator (for heating)
暖水瓶	nuan	ping	thermos flask or bottle
暖洋洋	nuan	yang	warm and cozy; comfortably warm
暖烘烘	nuan	hong	nice and warm; cozy; heartwarming
暖融融	nuan	rong	comfortably warm; cozy
暗中监视	an	shi	to monitor secretly; to spy on
暗光鸟	an	niao	black-crowned night heron (Tw)
暗公鸟	an	niao	black-crowned night heron (Tw)
暗冕鹪莺	an	ying	(bird species of China) rufescent prinia (Prinia rufescens)
暗哨儿	an	r	whistle given as a secret signal
暗地里	an	li	secretly; inwardly; on the sly
暗察明访	an	fang	see 明察暗訪|明察暗访[ming2 cha2 an4 fang3]
暗戳戳	an	chuo	(coll.) low-key; subtle; unobtrusive
暗搓搓	an	cuo	see 暗戳戳[an4 chuo1 chuo1]
暗无天日	an	ri	all black, no daylight (idiom); a world without justice
暗星云	an	yun	(astronomy) dark nebula; absorption nebula
暗渡陈仓	an	cang	lit. secretly crossing the Wei River 渭河[Wei4 He2] at Chencang (idiom, refers to a stratagem used by Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] in 206 BC against Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3] of Chu); fig. to feign one thing while doing another; to cheat under cover of a diversion
暗灰鹃鵙	an	ju	(bird species of China) black-winged cuckooshrike (Lalage melaschistos)
暗物质	an	zhi	(physics) dark matter
暗箱操作	an	zuo	covert activities (election rigging etc); under-the-table manipulations; black operations
暗线光谱	an	pu	dark-line spectrum
暗绿柳莺	an	ying	(bird species of China) greenish warbler (Phylloscopus trochiloides)
暗绿绣眼鸟	an	niao	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's white-eye (Zosterops simplex)
暗绿背鸬鹚	an	ci	(bird species of China) Japanese cormorant (Phalacrocorax capillatus)
暗背雨燕	an	yan	(bird species of China) dark-rumped swift (Apus acuticauda)
暗胸朱雀	an	que	(bird species of China) dark-breasted rosefinch (Procarduelis nipalensis)
暗能量	an	liang	(astronomy) dark energy
暗腹雪鸡	an	ji	(bird species of China) Himalayan snowcock (Tetraogallus himalayensis)
暗色鸦雀	an	que	(bird species of China) grey-hooded parrotbill (Suthora zappeyi)
暗花儿	an	r	veiled design incised in porcelain or woven in fabric
暗记儿	an	r	secret mark
暗送秋波	an	bo	to cast flirtatious glances at sb (idiom)
暗适应	an	ying	(visual physiology) dark adaptation
暗间儿	an	r	inner room
暗香疏影	an	ying	(poetic depiction of plum blossom)
暗黑破坏神	an	shen	Diablo (video game series)
暧昧关系	ai	xi	shady relationship; affair; adulterous relationship
暨南大学	ji	xue	Jinan University in Guangdong Province, with 4 campuses in Guangzhou, Shenzhen and Zhuhai
暮色苍茫	mu	mang	the hazy dusk of twilight (idiom)
暮鼓晨钟	mu	zhong	lit. evening drum, morning bell (idiom); fig. Buddhist monastic practice; the passage of time in a disciplined existence
暴利税	bao	shui	windfall profit tax
暴力分拣	bao	jian	rough handling of parcels during mail sorting
暴力法	bao	fa	violent method; brute force
暴力犯罪	bao	zui	violent crime
暴发户	bao	hu	newly rich; parvenu; upstart
暴戾恣睢	bao	sui	(idiom) cruel; ruthless; tyrannical
暴殄天物	bao	wu	to waste natural resources recklessly; not to know how to use things sparingly
暴虎冯河	bao	he	lit. fight tigers with one's bare hands and wade across raging rivers (idiom); fig. to display foolhardy courage
暴虐无道	bao	dao	(idiom) tyrannical; oppressive; lawless
暴走族	bao	zu	people who go on walks for exercise; (Tw) rebel youth motorcycle group
暴走漫画	bao	hua	rage comic
暴走鞋	bao	xie	Heelys (roller shoes with wheels protruding slightly from the heel)
暴跳如雷	bao	lei	(idiom) to stamp with fury; to fly into a rage
暴雪鹱	bao	hu	(bird species of China) northern fulmar (Fulmarus glacialis)
暴露无遗	bao	yi	to lay bare; to come to light
暴露狂	bao	kuang	exhibitionist
暴露癖	bao	pi	exhibitionism
暴风圈	bao	quan	(meteorology) storm area (area exposed to winds of force 7 or higher during a typhoon); (fig.) area particularly badly affected by a crisis
暴风雨	bao	yu	rainstorm; storm; tempest
暴风雪	bao	xue	snowstorm; blizzard
暴风骤雨	bao	yu	violent wind and rainstorm; hurricane; tempest
暴食症	bao	zheng	bulimia
暴饮暴食	bao	shi	to eat and drink unreasonably
暴龙属	bao	shu	genus Tyrannosaurus
暴龙科	bao	ke	Tyrannosauridae, the dinosaur family containing Tyrannosaurus
暹罗语	xian	yu	Siamese (Thai) language
暾欲谷	tun	gu	Tonyukuk (died c. 724 AD)
曙红朱雀	shu	que	(bird species of China) pink-rumped rosefinch (Carpodacus waltoni)
曝光表	bao	biao	light meter; exposure meter
曲别针	qu	zhen	paper clip
曲周县	qu	xian	Quzhou, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
曲射炮	qu	pao	curved-fire gun (mortar, howitzer etc)
曲意逢迎	qu	ying	to bow down to everything sb says or does; to act submissively in order to ingratiate oneself
曲松县	qu	xian	Qusum, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
曲柄钻	qu	zuan	hand drill with a crank handle
曲棍球	qu	qiu	field hockey
曲水县	qu	xian	Qüxü, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
曲江区	qu	qu	Qujiang, a district of Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
曲池穴	qu	xue	Quchi acupoint LI11, at the lateral end of the elbow crease
曲沃县	qu	xian	Quwo, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
曲率向量	qu	liang	curvature vector
曲突徙薪	qu	xin	lit. to bend the chimney and remove the firewood (to prevent fire) (idiom); fig. to take preventive measures
曲线图	qu	tu	line graph; line diagram
曲线拟合	qu	he	curve fitting
曲线救国	qu	guo	(of sb who ostensibly collaborated with the Japanese during the Sino-Japanese war of 1937-1945) to secretly work for the Nationalists or against the Communists
曲线论	qu	lun	the theory of curves
曲线锯	qu	ju	jigsaw
曲终奏雅	qu	ya	perfect finish (idiom)
曲肱而枕	qu	zhen	lit. to use one's bent arm as a pillow (idiom); fig. content with simple things
曲里拐弯	qu	wan	winding and turning (idiom)
曲阜孔庙	qu	miao	temple to Confucius in his hometown Qufu
曲阜市	qu	shi	Qufu, hometown of Confucius 孔子[Kong3 zi3], now a county-level city in Jining 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
曲阳县	qu	xian	Quyang, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
曲霉毒素	qu	su	aspergillus
曲靖市	qu	shi	Qujing, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
曲面论	qu	lun	the theory of surfaces
曲颈瓶	qu	ping	retort; bottle with curved neck
曲高和寡	qu	gua	difficult songs find few singers (idiom); highbrow
曲麻莱	qu	lai	see 曲麻萊縣|曲麻莱县[Qu3 ma2 lai2 Xian4]
曲麻莱县	qu	xian	Qumarlêb, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
曳光弹	ye	dan	tracer ammunition; tracer
曳尾鹱	ye	hu	(bird species of China) wedge-tailed shearwater (Puffinus pacificus)
曳引车	ye	che	(Tw) tractor unit; prime mover
曳步舞	ye	wu	shuffle (dance)
更上一层楼	geng	lou	to take it up a notch; to bring it up a level
更仆难数	geng	shu	too many to count; very many; innumerable
更年期	geng	qi	menopause; andropause
更新世	geng	shi	Pleistocene (geological epoch from 2m years ago, covering the most recent ice ages)
更新换代	geng	dai	reform and renewal; generational change
更有甚者	geng	zhe	furthermore (idiom)
更深人静	geng	jing	deep at night and all is quiet (idiom)
更胜一筹	geng	chou	superior by a notch; a cut above; even better
更衣室	geng	shi	change room; dressing room; locker room; (euphemism) toilet
曹不兴	cao	xing	Cao Buxing or Ts'ao Pu-hsing (active c. 210-250), famous semilegendary painter, one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
曹余章	cao	zhang	Cao Yuzhang (1924-1996), modern writer and publisher, author of Tales from 5000 Years of Chinese History 上下五千年[Shang4 xia4 Wu3 Qian1 nian2]
曹刚川	cao	chuan	Cao Gangchuan (1935-), former artillery officer, senior PRC politician and army leader
曹妃甸	cao	dian	see 曹妃甸區|曹妃甸区[Cao2 fei1 dian4 Qu1]
曹妃甸区	cao	qu	Caofeidian, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
曹白鱼	cao	yu	Chinese herring (Ilisha elongata); white herring; slender shad
曹雪芹	cao	qin	Cao Xueqin (c. 1715-c. 1764), accepted author of A Dream of Red Mansions 紅樓夢|红楼梦[Hong2 lou2 Meng4]
曹靖华	cao	hua	Cao Jinghua (1897-1987), translator from Russian, professor of Peking University and essayist
曼切斯特	man	te	Manchester; also written 曼徹斯特|曼彻斯特
曼哈坦	man	tan	see 曼哈頓|曼哈顿[Man4 ha1 dun4]
曼哈顿	man	dun	Manhattan island; Manhattan borough of New York City
曼哈顿区	man	qu	Manhattan borough of New York City
曼城队	man	dui	Manchester City football team
曼妥思	man	si	Mentos, a brand of candy produced by European company Perfetti Van Melle
曼尼托巴	man	ba	Manitoba, province of Canada
曼彻斯特	man	te	Manchester
曼彻斯特编码	man	ma	Manchester encoding
曼德勒	man	le	Mandalay, province and second city of Myanmar (Burma)
曼德拉	man	la	Nelson Mandela (1918-2013), South African ANC politician, president of South Africa 1994-1999
曼波鱼	man	yu	ocean sunfish (Mola mola)
曼海姆	man	mu	Mannheim, German city at the confluence of Rhine and Neckar
曼珠沙华	man	hua	red spider lily (Lycoris radiata); Sanskrit mañjusaka; cluster amaryllis
曼苏尔	man	er	Al-Mansur; Abu Jafar al Mansur (712-775), second Abassid caliph
曼荷莲女子学院	man	yuan	see 曼荷蓮學院|曼荷莲学院[Man4 he2 lian2 Xue2 yuan4]
曼荷莲学院	man	yuan	Mount Holyoke College (South Hadley, Massachusetts)
曼荼罗	man	luo	(Buddhism) (loanword from Sanskrit) mandala
曼达尔	man	er	Mandal (city in Agder, Norway)
曼陀林	man	lin	(loanword) mandolin
曼陀罗	man	luo	(botany) devil's trumpet (Datura stramonium) (loanword from Sanskrit "māndāra"); mandala (loanword from Sanskrit "maṇḍala")
曼陀铃	man	ling	(loanword) mandolin
曾几何时	ceng	shi	just a while before; not so long ago; everyone can remember when..
曾国藩	zeng	fan	Zeng Guofan (1811-1872), Qing dynasty politician and military man
曾外祖母	zeng	mu	great-grandmother (mother's grandmother)
曾外祖父	zeng	fu	great-grandfather (mother's grandfather)
曾孙女	zeng	nv	great-granddaughter
曾孝谷	zeng	gu	Zeng Xiaogu (1873-1937), actor and pioneer of Chinese drama in New Culture style
曾庆红	zeng	hong	Zeng Qinghong (1939-), vice-president of PRC 2003-2008
曾祖母	zeng	mu	father's father's mother; paternal great-grandmother
曾祖父	zeng	fu	father's father's father; paternal great-grandfather
曾祖父母	zeng	mu	great-grandparents
曾繁仁	zeng	ren	Zeng Fanren, president of Shandong University from February 1998 until July 2000
曾纪泽	zeng	ze	Cang Jize or Tseng Chi-tse (1839-1890), pioneer diplomat of late Qing, serve as imperial commissioner (ambassador) to UK, France and Russia
曾经沧海	ceng	hai	lit. having crossed the vast ocean (idiom); fig. widely experienced in the vicissitudes of life
曾荫权	zeng	quan	Sir Donald Tsang, aka Tsang Yam-Kuen (1944–), the second Chief Executive of Hong Kong (2005–2012)
曾都区	zeng	qu	Zengdu, a district of Suizhou City 隨州市|随州市[Sui2 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
曾金燕	zeng	yan	Zeng Jinyan (1983-), Chinese blogger and human rights activist, wife of dissident activist Hu Jia 胡佳[Hu2 Jia1]
替代品	ti	pin	substitute; alternative
替代燃料	ti	liao	alternative fuel
替古人担忧	ti	you	to fret over the worries of long-departed people (idiom); to worry unnecessarily; crying over spilt milk; often used with negatives, e.g. no need to worry about past issues
替天行道	ti	dao	(idiom) to enforce justice on behalf of Heaven
替死鬼	ti	gui	scapegoat; fall guy
替班儿	ti	r	erhua variant of 替班[ti4 ban1]
替罪羊	ti	yang	scapegoat
替罪羔羊	ti	yang	scapegoat; sacrificial lamb
替补队员	ti	yuan	substitute player; reserve player
替角儿	ti	r	erhua variant of 替角[ti4 jue2]
替身演员	ti	yuan	body double; stunt double
最优化	zui	hua	optimization (math.)
最优解	zui	jie	optimal solution
最低潮	zui	chao	lit. low tide; fig. the lowest point (e.g. of a relationship)
最低点	zui	dian	lowest point; nadir; minimum level
最低谷	zui	gu	lowest point; nadir
最低限度	zui	du	the bare minimum; the lowest acceptable limit or standard
最低音	zui	yin	lowest voice; lowest pitch; lowest note
最佳化	zui	hua	(computing, math.) to optimize
最后一天	zui	tian	final day
最后晚餐	zui	can	the Last Supper (in the biblical Passion story)
最后期限	zui	xian	deadline; final time limit (for project)
最后的晚餐	zui	can	the Last Supper (in the Christian Passion story)
最后通牒	zui	die	ultimatum
最喜爱	zui	ai	favorite
最大似然估计	zui	ji	maximum-likelihood estimation (statistics)
最大公因子	zui	zi	(math.) highest common factor (HCF); greatest common divisor (GCD)
最大公约数	zui	shu	(math.) highest common factor (HCF); greatest common divisor (GCD)
最大化	zui	hua	to maximize
最大速率	zui	lv	maximum speed; maximum velocity
最好是	zui	shi	(as a complete expression, or followed by 啦[la5]) (coll.) Yeah, right! As if!
最密堆积	zui	ji	close-packing of spheres (math.)
最小二乘	zui	cheng	(math.) least squares
最小二乘法	zui	fa	(math.) least squares method
最小值	zui	zhi	least value; minimum
最小公倍数	zui	shu	least common multiple
最小公分母	zui	mu	lowest common denominator
最小化	zui	hua	to minimize
最小平方法	zui	fa	method of least squares (math.) (Tw)
最年长	zui	zhang	eldest
最惠国	zui	guo	most-favored nation (trade status)
最惠国待遇	zui	yu	most favored nation
最终幻想	zui	xiang	Final Fantasy (video game)
最近几年	zui	nian	the last few years; last several years; recent years
最高人民检察院	zui	yuan	PRC Supreme People's Procuratorate (prosecutor's office)
最高人民法院	zui	yuan	Supreme People's Court (PRC)
最高工资限额	zui	e	wage ceiling
最高法院	zui	yuan	supreme court
最高等	zui	deng	highest level; top class
最高限额	zui	e	maximum amount; ceiling; upper limit
最高音	zui	yin	highest voice; highest pitch; highest note
月下老人	yue	ren	(Chinese folk religion) the god of matchmaking; (idiom) matchmaker
月下老儿	yue	r	see 月下老人[yue4 xia4 lao3 ren2]
月下花前	yue	qian	see 花前月下[hua1 qian2 yue4 xia4]
月亮女神号	yue	hao	SELENE, Japanese lunar orbiter spacecraft, launched in 2007
月亮杯	yue	bei	menstrual cup (Tw)
月份会议	yue	yi	monthly meeting; monthly conference
月份牌	yue	pai	calendar (esp. illustrated)
月偏食	yue	shi	partial eclipse of the moon
月光族	yue	zu	people who spend all their income each month
月光石	yue	shi	moonstone
月全食	yue	shi	total lunar eclipse
月台幕门	yue	men	(railway) platform screen doors; platform-edge doors
月台票	yue	piao	platform ticket
月头儿	yue	r	start of the month (colloquial)
月女神	yue	shen	Moon Goddess
月婆子	yue	zi	(coll.) lying-in woman
月子中心	yue	xin	postpartum care center (a facility providing services such as professional care and nutritionally balanced meals for mothers during the traditional month of rest after giving birth)
月子病	yue	bing	puerperal fever
月收入	yue	ru	monthly income
月曜日	yue	ri	Monday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
月桂冠	yue	guan	laurel crown; victory garland (in Greek and Western culture)
月桂叶	yue	ye	bay leaf; laurel leaf
月桂树	yue	shu	laurel tree (Laurus nobilis); bay tree
月桂树叶	yue	ye	laurel leaf; bay leaf
月湖区	yue	qu	Yuehu, a district of Yingtan City 鷹潭市|鹰潭市[Ying1 tan2 Shi4], Jiangxi
月牙形	yue	xing	crescent
月球车	yue	che	moon buggy
月盲症	yue	zheng	moon blindness; equine recurrent uveitis
月经垫	yue	dian	sanitary towel; menopad
月经棉栓	yue	shuan	tampon
月黑天	yue	tian	the dark; night
有一些	you	xie	somewhat; rather; some
有一句没一句	you	ju	to speak one minute and be quiet the next
有一套	you	tao	to have a skill; to be savvy; to know how to do sth
有一手	you	shou	to have a skill; to have a lot on the ball; to have an affair
有一拼	you	pin	comparable; on a par (with)
有一搭无一搭	you	da	see 有一搭沒一搭|有一搭没一搭[you3 yi1 da1 mei2 yi1 da1]
有一搭没一搭	you	da	unimportant; perfunctory; indifferent
有一次	you	ci	once; once upon a time
有一点	you	dian	a little; somewhat
有一点儿	you	r	a bit; a little
有一腿	you	tui	(coll.) to have an affair
有一说一	you	yi	to speak plainly; to speak one's mind; to say directly
有一说一有二说二	you	er	to call sth as it is (idiom)
有不少名堂	you	tang	there is a lot to it; not a straightforward matter
有丝分裂	you	lie	mitosis
有两下子	you	zi	to have real skill; to know one's stuff
有为有守	you	shou	able to act while maintaining one's integrity (idiom); also written 有守有為|有守有为[you3 shou3 you3 wei2]
有主见	you	jian	opinionated; having one's own strong views
有了胎	you	tai	pregnant; to carry a child
有亏职守	you	shou	(to be guilty of) dereliction of duty
有些人	you	ren	some people
有产者	you	zhe	property owner; the wealthy
有人情	you	qing	humane
有人想你	you	ni	Bless you! (after a sneeze)
有仇不报非君子	you	zi	a real man, if he takes a hit, will seek to even the score (idiom)
有价值	you	zhi	valuable
有价无市	you	shi	(idiom) having an asking price but few or no buyers
有价证券	you	quan	(finance) negotiable securities
有何贵干	you	gan	What (noble errand) brings you here?; May I help you?; What can I do for you?
有作用	you	yong	effective; to have impact
有借有还再借不难	you	nan	return what you borrowed on time, you may borrow again next time (idiom)
有关各方	you	fang	all parties involved
有关联	you	lian	related to; concerning; to be correlated
有兴趣	you	qu	interested; interesting
有其师必有其徒	you	tu	As the teacher, so the pupil. (idiom)
有其父必有其子	you	zi	like father, like son (idiom)
有决心	you	xin	determined
有则改之无则加勉	you	mian	correct any mistakes you made, but maintain your good record if you did not make them (idiom)
有创造力	you	li	ingenious; creative
有利于	you	yu	to be advantageous to; to be beneficial for
有利可图	you	tu	profitable
有利有弊	you	bi	to have both advantages and disadvantages
有办法	you	fa	can find methods; resourceful; creative
有助于	you	yu	to contribute to; to promote
有勇无谋	you	mou	bold but not very astute (idiom)
有卖相	you	xiang	appealing; attractive (esp. to consumers)
有印象	you	xiang	to have a recollection (of sb or sth); to remember
有去无回	you	hui	gone forever (idiom)
有口无心	you	xin	to speak harshly but without any bad intent (idiom)
有口皆碑	you	bei	every voice gives praise (idiom); with an extensive public reputation
有可能	you	neng	possible; probable; possibly
有史以来	you	lai	since the beginning of history
有名亡实	you	shi	lit. has a name but no reality (idiom); exists only in name; nominal
有名无实	you	shi	lit. has a name but no reality (idiom); exists only in name; nominal
有商有量	you	liang	to talk things through (idiom); to have an exchange of views
有嘴无心	you	xin	to talk without any intention of acting on it; empty prattle
有嘴没舌	you	she	struck dumb; speechless
有增无减	you	jian	to increase without letup; to get worse and worse (idiom)
有增无已	you	yi	constantly increasing without limit (idiom); rapid progress in all directions
有声书	you	shu	audiobook
有声有色	you	se	having sound and color (idiom); vivid; dazzling
有声读物	you	wu	audiobook; recording of a person reading the text of a book
有备无患	you	huan	Preparedness averts peril.; to be prepared, just in case (idiom)
有备而来	you	lai	to come prepared
有夫之妇	you	fu	married woman
有失厚道	you	dao	to be ungenerous
有失身份	you	fen	to be beneath one's dignity
有失远迎	you	ying	(polite) excuse me for not going out to meet you
有头无尾	you	wei	(idiom) to fail to finish off what one started
有头有尾	you	wei	where there's a start, there's a finish (idiom); to finish once one starts sth; to carry things through; I started, so I'll finish.
有头有脸	you	lian	(idiom) (of a person) to be highly respected; to enjoy prestige
有奶便是娘	you	niang	lit. whoever provides milk is your mother (idiom); fig. to follow whoever is feeding you; to put one's loyalties where one's interests lie
有奶就是娘	you	niang	see 有奶便是娘[you3 nai3 bian4 shi4 niang2]
有妇之夫	you	fu	married man
有始无终	you	zhong	to start but not finish (idiom); to fail to carry things through; lack of sticking power; short attention span
有始有终	you	zhong	where there's a start, there's a finish (idiom); to finish once one starts sth; to carry things through; I started, so I'll finish.
有子存焉	you	yan	I still have sons, don't I?; fig. future generations will continue the work
有孔虫	you	chong	foraminifera
有学问	you	wen	(of a person) learned; erudite; scholarly; (of a topic, practice or domain) to involve a body of deep, specialized knowledge; to require expertise
有害无利	you	li	harmful and without benefit (idiom); more harm than good
有害无益	you	yi	harmful and without benefit (idiom); more harm than good
有屁快放	you	fang	spit it out!; out with it!
有希望	you	wang	hopeful; promising; prospective
有帮助	you	zhu	helpful
有年头	you	tou	for donkey's years; for ages
有序化	you	hua	ordering (of a list, encyclopedia etc)
有弹性	you	xing	flexible
有影响	you	xiang	influential
有征无战	you	zhan	to win without a fight (idiom)
有得一比	you	bi	can be compared; to be very similar
有得有失	you	shi	you win some, you lose some (idiom); gains and losses; trade-off
有德行	you	xing	virtuous
有心人	you	ren	resolute person; person with aspirations; people who feel
有心无力	you	li	(idiom) to want to do sth but be unable to; willing but unable
有心眼	you	yan	to have good sense; to be quick-witted; to be shrewd
有志之士	you	shi	(idiom) person committed to a noble cause or ideal
有志气	you	qi	ambitious
有志竟成	you	cheng	persevere and you will succeed (idiom); where there's a will, there's a way
有志者事竟成	you	cheng	a really determined person will find a solution (idiom); where there's a will, there's a way
有性生殖	you	zhi	sexual reproduction
有性繁殖	you	zhi	sexual reproduction
有怪莫怪	you	guai	please don't take offense; don't take it personally
有恃无恐	you	kong	secure in the knowledge that one has backing
有悖于	you	yu	to go against
有情人	you	ren	lovers
有情人终成眷属	you	shu	love will find a way (idiom)
有情有义	you	yi	affectionate and true; loyal (idiom)
有惊无险	you	xian	to be more scared than hurt (idiom); to get through a daunting experience without mishap
有意义	you	yi	to make sense; to have meaning; to have significance
有意思	you	si	interesting; meaningful; enjoyable
有意无意	you	yi	intentionally or otherwise
有意识	you	shi	conscious
有感而发	you	fa	(idiom) to express thoughts or feelings prompted by one's experience or observations
有所不同	you	tong	to differ to some extent (idiom)
有所作为	you	wei	(idiom) to achieve sth worthwhile; to make a positive contribution
有所得必有所失	you	shi	there is no gain without a loss (idiom); there is no such thing as a free meal
有手有脚	you	jiao	lit. have hands have feet; to be able bodied (idiom); to have the ability to work
有才干	you	gan	capable
有损压缩	you	suo	(computing) lossy compression
有排面	you	mian	(neologism) (coll.) ostentatious; showy; impressive
有搞头	you	tou	(coll.) worthwhile; likely to be fruitful
有攻击性	you	xing	offensive
有效性	you	xing	validity
有效数字	you	zi	significant figures (in a measured value)
有效日期	you	qi	expiration date; expiry date
有效期	you	qi	period of validity; sell-by date
有效负载	you	zai	payload
有教无类	you	lei	education for everyone, irrespective of background
有教无类法	you	fa	No Child Left Behind Act, USA 2001
有新意	you	yi	modern; up-to-date
有无相通	you	tong	see 互通有無|互通有无[hu4 tong1 you3 wu2]
有时候	you	hou	sometimes
有朝一日	you	ri	one day; sometime in the future
有期徒刑	you	xing	limited term of imprisonment (i.e. anything less than life imprisonment)
有木有	you	you	(slang) come on, you can't deny it!; don't you think so?!; (melodramatic form of 有沒有|有没有[you3 mei2 you3])
有本事	you	shi	to have what it takes; (coll.) (often followed by 就[jiu4]) (used to challenge sb) if you're so clever, ..., if she's so tough, ... etc; Example: 有本事就打我[you3 ben3 shi5 jiu4 da3 wo3] Hit me if you dare!
有本钱	you	qian	to be in a position to (take on a challenge etc)
有机体	you	ti	organism
有机分子	you	zi	organic molecule
有机化合物	you	wu	organic compound
有机化学	you	xue	organic chemistry
有机可乘	you	cheng	to have an opportunity that one can exploit (idiom)
有机土	you	tu	histosol (soil taxonomy)
有机氮	you	dan	organic nitrogen
有机物	you	wu	organic substance; organic matter
有机玻璃	you	li	plexiglass
有机磷	you	lin	organophosphorus compound (often used in pesticides)
有机磷毒剂	you	ji	organophosphorus agent
有机磷酸酯类	you	lei	organophosphate
有机肥	you	fei	organic fertilizer
有权势者	you	zhe	person in power; the one with authority; the guy in charge
有权威	you	wei	authoritative
有条不紊	you	wen	regular and thorough (idiom); methodically arranged
有条有理	you	li	(idiom) clear and orderly; neat and tidy
有条纹	you	wen	striped
有板有眼	you	yan	orderly; methodical; rhythmical
有枝有叶	you	ye	to become bogged down in the details (idiom)
有样学样	you	yang	to imitate what sb else does; to follow sb's example
有核国家	you	jia	nuclear weapon states
有棱有角	you	jiao	(of a shape) sharp and clearcut; (of a person) definite in his opinion
有次序	you	xu	ordered
有毅力	you	li	persevering; unwavering
有气无力	you	li	weakly and without strength (idiom); dispirited
有气派	you	pai	lordly
有气质	you	zhi	to have class; classy
有气音	you	yin	aspirated consonant (in phonetics)
有氧健身操	you	cao	aerobics
有氧操	you	cao	aerobics
有氧运动	you	dong	aerobics
有求必应	you	ying	to grant whatever is asked for; to accede to every plea
有沉有浮	you	fu	to have one's ups and downs
有没有	you	you	(before a noun) Do (you, they etc) have ...?; Is there a ...?; (before a verb) Did (you, they etc) (verb, infinitive)?
有活力	you	li	energetic; vital
有源区	you	qu	(computer chip manufacture) active area
有滋有味	you	wei	flavorsome; (fig.) delightful; full of interest
有潜力	you	li	promising; showing potential
有点儿	you	r	slightly; a little; somewhat
有烟煤	you	mei	smokey coal
有理式	you	shi	rational expression (math.)
有理数	you	shu	rational number (i.e. fraction of two integers, math.)
有理数域	you	yu	field of rational numbers (math.), usually denoted by Q
有理数集	you	ji	set of rational numbers (math.)
有生之年	you	nian	(idiom) during one's lifetime; while one is on this earth; in one's remaining years
有生以来	you	lai	(idiom) since birth; for one's whole life
有百利而无一害	you	hai	to have many advantages and no disadvantages
有百利而无一弊	you	bi	to have many advantages and no disadvantages
有百害而无一利	you	li	having no advantage whatsoever
有的放矢	you	shi	lit. to have a target in mind when shooting one's arrows (idiom); fig. to have a clear objective
有的时候	you	hou	sometimes; at times
有的是	you	shi	have plenty of; there's no lack of
有的没有的	you	de	see 有的沒的|有的没的[you3 de5 mei2 de5]
有的没的	you	de	trivial (matters); triviality; nonsense
有益处	you	chu	beneficial
有目共睹	you	du	anyone with eyes can see it (idiom); obvious to all; sth speaks for itself; is there for all to see
有目共见	you	jian	anyone with eyes can see it (idiom); obvious to all; sth speaks for itself; is there for all to see
有目共赏	you	shang	as everyone can appreciate (idiom); clear to all; unarguable
有目无睹	you	du	has eyes but can't see (idiom); unable or unwilling to see the importance of sth; blind (to sth great)
有眉目	you	mu	to begin to take shape; to be about to materialize
有眼不识泰山	you	shan	lit. to have eyes but fail to recognize Mt Tai (idiom); fig. to fail to recognize sb important or sb's great talent; to be blind to the fact
有眼光	you	guang	to have good taste
有眼力见儿	you	r	(dialect) alert; attentive; observant
有眼无珠	you	zhu	(idiom) blind as a bat (figuratively); unaware of who (or what) one is dealing with; to fail to recognize what sb a bit more perceptive would
有礼貌	you	mao	courteous; polite
有神论	you	lun	theism (the belief in the existence of God)
有神论者	you	zhe	theist (believer in one or more Deities)
有福同享有祸同当	you	dang	To enjoy blessings and endure misfortune together (idiom); for better or for worse
有福同享有难同当	you	dang	To enjoy blessings and endure misfortune together (idiom); for better or for worse
有空儿	you	r	erhua form of 有空[you3 kong4]
有精神病	you	bing	insane
有约在先	you	xian	to have a prior engagement
有线新闻网	you	wang	Cable Network News (CNN)
有线电视	you	shi	cable television
有统计学意义	you	yi	statistically significant
有编制	you	zhi	having a permanent post; part of the official staff
有缘无分	you	fen	destined to meet but not fated to be together (idiom)
有罪不罚	you	fa	impunity
有联系	you	xi	to be connected; to be related
有肩膀	you	bang	responsible; reliable
有胆量	you	liang	courageous
有能力	you	li	able
有腔调	you	diao	classy; stylish; upmarket
有良心	you	xin	conscientious
有色人种	you	zhong	colored races
有色无胆	you	dan	to be perverse and suggestive towards the opposite sex, but shrinking back when provoked to act on it; to have perverted thoughts but no guts to actually do it; to be all talk and no action
有色眼镜	you	jing	(idiom) biased perspective; prejudice
有色金属	you	shu	non-ferrous metals (all metals excluding iron, chromium, manganese and their alloys)
有节制	you	zhi	temperate; moderate; restrained
有苦说不出	you	chu	having unspeakable bitter suffering; (often used after 啞巴吃黃連|哑巴吃黄连[ya3 ba5 chi1 huang2 lian2])
有荤有素	you	su	to include both meat and vegetables
有袋类	you	lei	(zoology) marsupial
有识之士	you	shi	a person with knowledge and experience (idiom)
有话快说	you	shuo	spit it out!
有话要说	you	shuo	to speak one's mind
有说有笑	you	xiao	talking and laughing; to jest; cheerful and lively
有谱儿	you	r	erhua variant of 有譜|有谱[you3 pu3]
有责任	you	ren	liable; responsible
有资格	you	ge	to be entitled; to qualify; to be qualified
有赖于	you	yu	see 有賴|有赖[you3 lai4]
有蹄动物	you	wu	ungulates (animals with hooves)
有轨电车	you	che	streetcar; tramcar; tram
有边儿	you	r	(Beijing dialect) to show promise; to look hopeful; to have good prospects
有过之而无不及	you	ji	not to be inferior in any aspects (idiom); to surpass; to outdo
有道是	you	shi	as they say, ...; as the saying goes, ...
有道理	you	li	to make sense; reasonable
有鉴于此	you	ci	in view of this; to this end
有钩绦虫	you	chong	tapeworm (Taenia solium)
有钱人	you	ren	rich person; the rich
有钱有势	you	shi	rich and powerful (idiom)
有钱有闲	you	xian	to have money and time; to be part of the leisure class; the idle rich
有钱能使鬼推磨	you	mo	lit. with money, you can get a devil to turn a millstone (idiom); fig. with money, you can get anything done; money talks
有阴影	you	ying	shadowy
有限元	you	yuan	finite element (method)
有限元法	you	fa	finite element method
有限公司	you	si	limited company; corporation
有限单元	you	yuan	finite element (method)
有限群	you	qun	finite group (math.)
有限集	you	ji	finite set
有雄心	you	xin	ambitious
有预谋	you	mou	premeditated
有魅力	you	li	attractive; charming
朊毒体	ruan	ti	prion (molecular biology)
朊病毒	ruan	du	prion (pathogen)
朋友圈	peng	quan	Moments (social networking function of smartphone app WeChat 微信[Wei1 xin4])
朋友妻不可欺	peng	qi	you should not covet your friend's wife (idiom)
朋比为奸	peng	jian	to conspire; to gang up
服他灵	fu	ling	voltaren, a trade name for diclofenac sodium, a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug used to reduce swelling and as painkiller; also called 扶他林
服兵役	fu	yi	to serve in the army
服务业	fu	ye	service industry
服务台	fu	tai	service desk; information desk; reception desk
服务员	fu	yuan	waiter; waitress; attendant
服务器	fu	qi	server (computer); CL:臺|台[tai2]
服务提供商	fu	shang	(Internet) service provider
服务提供者	fu	zhe	service provider
服务生	fu	sheng	server (at a restaurant)
服务规章	fu	zhang	service regulation
服务质量	fu	liang	Quality of Service; QOS
服务费	fu	fei	service charge; cover charge
服服帖帖	fu	tie	submissive; docile; obedient
服装秀	fu	xiu	fashion show
朔城区	shuo	qu	Shuocheng, a district of Shuozhou City 朔州市[Shuo4 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
朔州市	shuo	shi	Shuozhou, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
朔望潮	shuo	chao	spring tide (biggest tide, at new moon or full moon)
朔风凛冽	shuo	lie	The north wind is icy cold.
朗姆酒	lang	jiu	(loanword) rum
朗朗上口	lang	kou	to flow right off the tongue (of lyrics or poetry); to recite with ease; catchy (of a song)
望城区	wang	qu	Wangcheng, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
望夫石	wang	shi	Amah Rock in Sha Tin 沙田[Sha1 tian2], Hong Kong
望奎县	wang	xian	Wangkui, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
望女成凤	wang	feng	lit. to hope one's daughter becomes a phoenix (idiom); fig. to hope one's daughter is a success in life
望子成龙	wang	long	lit. to hope one's son becomes a dragon (idiom); fig. to long for one' s child to succeed in life; to have great hopes for one's offspring; to give one's child the best education as a career investment
望尘莫及	wang	ji	lit. to see only the other rider's dust and have no hope of catching up (idiom); to be far inferior
望文生义	wang	yi	lit. view a text and interpret (idiom); to interpret word by word without understanding the meaning; a far-fetched interpretation
望梅止渴	wang	ke	lit. to quench one's thirst by thinking of plums (idiom); fig. to console oneself with illusions
望江县	wang	xian	Wangjiang, a county in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
望洋兴叹	wang	tan	(lit.) to gaze at the ocean and lament one's inadequacy (idiom); (fig.) to feel powerless and incompetent (to perform a task)
望眼欲穿	wang	chuan	to anxiously await
望而兴叹	wang	tan	to sigh (in dismay, admiration etc)
望而却步	wang	bu	(lit.) to shrink back at the sight of (sth daunting) (idiom); (fig.) to be deterred
望而生畏	wang	wei	(idiom) to feel intimidated
望花区	wang	qu	Wanghua, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
望谟县	wang	xian	Wangmo, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
望远瞄准镜	wang	jing	telescopic sight; scope (on a rifle)
望远镜	wang	jing	telescope (CL:部[bu4]); binoculars (CL:副[fu4])
望远镜座	wang	zuo	Telescopium (constellation)
望都县	wang	xian	Wangdu, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
望风捕影	wang	ying	see 捕風捉影|捕风捉影[bu3 feng1 zhuo1 ying3]
望风而逃	wang	tao	to flee at the mere sight of (idiom)
朝三暮四	zhao	si	lit. say three in the morning but four in the evening (idiom); to change sth that is already settled upon; indecisive; to blow hot and cold
朝不保夕	zhao	xi	at dawn, not sure of lasting to evening (idiom); precarious state; imminent crisis; living from hand to mouth
朝不虑夕	zhao	xi	at dawn, not sure of lasting to evening (idiom); precarious state; imminent crisis; living from hand to mouth
朝中社	chao	she	abbr. for 朝鮮中央通訊社|朝鲜中央通讯社[Chao2 xian3 Zhong1 yang1 Tong1 xun4 she4]
朝乾夕惕	zhao	ti	cautious and diligent all day long (idiom)
朝令夕改	zhao	gai	to make frequent or unpredictable changes in policy (idiom)
朝圣者	chao	zhe	pilgrim
朝夕相处	zhao	chu	to spend all one's time together (idiom)
朝天区	chao	qu	Chaotian, a district of Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
朝天椒	chao	jiao	chili pepper (Capsicum frutescens var)
朝山进香	chao	xiang	to make a temple pilgrimage and burn incense
朝思暮想	zhao	xiang	to yearn for sth day and night (idiom)
朝拜圣山	chao	shan	a pilgrimage to a holy mountain
朝日新闻	zhao	wen	Asahi Shimbun (Japanese newspaper)
朝朝暮暮	zhao	mu	from dawn to dusk; all the time
朝核问题	chao	ti	Korean nuclear problem
朝气蓬勃	zhao	bo	full of youthful energy (idiom); vigorous; energetic; a bright spark
朝永振一郎	chao	lang	TOMONAGA Shin'ichirō (1906-1979), Japanese physicist, 1965 Nobel prize laureate with Richard Feynman and Julian Schwinger
朝生暮死	zhao	si	lit. born in the morning and dying at dusk (idiom); fig. ephemeral; transient
朝秦暮楚	zhao	chu	serve Qin in the morning Chu in the evening (idiom); quick to switch sides
朝花夕拾	zhao	shi	"Dawn Blossoms Plucked at Dusk", a collection of autobiographical essays by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
朝过夕改	zhao	gai	to correct in the evening a fault of the morning (idiom); to quickly amend one's ways
朝闻夕改	zhao	gai	lit. heard in the morning and changed by the evening; to correct an error very quickly (idiom)
朝阳产业	zhao	ye	sunrise industry
朝阳区	chao	qu	Chaoyang, an inner district of Beijing; Chaoyang, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin; Chaoyang, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
朝阳县	chao	xian	Chaoyang, a county in Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
朝阳市	chao	shi	Chaoyang, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
朝阳门	chao	men	Chaoyangmen neighborhood of Beijing
朝露溘至	zhao	zhi	the morning dew will swiftly dissipate (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
朝饔夕飧	zhao	sun	(lit.) breakfast in the morning and supper in the evening (idiom); (fig.) to do nothing but eat and drink
朝鲜中央通讯社	chao	she	North Korean Central News Agency (KCNA); abbr. to 朝中社[Chao2 zhong1 she4]
朝鲜人	chao	ren	a North Korean; (in broader or historical usage) a Korean
朝鲜八道	chao	dao	the eight provinces of Yi dynasty Korea
朝鲜劳动党	chao	dang	Workers' Party of Korea (WPK), the ruling party of North Korea
朝鲜半岛	chao	dao	Korean Peninsula
朝鲜太宗	chao	zong	King Taejong of Joseon Korea (1367–1422), reigned 1400–1418
朝鲜字母	chao	mu	hangul, Korean phonetic alphabet; Korean letters
朝鲜总督府	chao	fu	Japanese colonial administration of Korea 1910-1945
朝鲜战争	chao	zheng	Korean War (1950-1953)
朝鲜文	chao	wen	Korean written language
朝鲜族	chao	zu	Korean ethnic group; Koreans (major ethnic group of the Korean Peninsula); Korean ethnic minority in China
朝鲜日报	chao	bao	Chosun Ilbo, a South Korean newspaper
朝鲜核谈	chao	tan	talks on North Korea's nuclear program
朝鲜海峡	chao	xia	Korea Strait; Tsushima Strait (between Japan and Korea)
朝鲜筝	chao	zheng	gayageum (Korean 12-stringed zither)
朝鲜语	chao	yu	Korean language
期中考	qi	kao	mid-term exam
期望值	qi	zhi	expectations; (math) expected value
期期艾艾	qi	ai	stammering (idiom)
期末考	qi	kao	final exam
期货合约	qi	yue	futures contract (finance)
朦胧诗	meng	shi	Misty Poetry, a post-Cultural Revolution poetry movement
木乃伊	mu	yi	(loanword) mummy (preserved corpse)
木乃伊化	mu	hua	to mummify; mummification
木人石心	mu	xin	lit. body made of wood, heart made of stone (idiom); fig. heartless
木偶剧	mu	ju	puppet show
木偶戏	mu	xi	puppet show
木偶秀	mu	xiu	puppet show
木兰县	mu	xian	Mulan, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
木兰属	mu	shu	Magnolia, genus of trees and shrubs
木兰科	mu	ke	Magnoliaceae, family of trees and shrubs
木兰纲	mu	gang	Magnoliopsidae or Dicotyledoneae (class of plants distinguished by two embryonic leaves)
木兰花	mu	hua	magnolia
木华黎	mu	li	Muqali or Mukhali (1170-1223), military commander under Genghis Khan 成吉思汗[Cheng2 ji2 si1 han2]
木卡姆	mu	mu	muqam, any of a set of 12 melody types used in the music of the Uyghurs
木卫一	mu	yi	Io (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter I
木卫三	mu	san	Ganymede (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter III
木卫二	mu	er	Europa (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter II
木卫四	mu	si	Callisto (moon of Jupiter), aka Jupiter IV
木吉他	mu	ta	acoustic guitar
木垒县	mu	xian	see 木壘哈薩克自治縣|木垒哈萨克自治县[Mu4 lei3 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
木垒哈萨克自治县	mu	xian	Mori Kazakh Autonomous County, in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
木子美	mu	mei	Mu Zimei, Chinese celebrity
木已成舟	mu	zhou	lit. the timber has been turned into a boat already (idiom); fig. what is done cannot be undone
木曜日	mu	ri	Thursday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
木本植物	mu	wu	woody plant
木栅线	mu	xian	Taipei Metro Muzha Line, former name of the Wenshan Line 文山線|文山线[Wen2 shan1 xian4]
木格措	mu	cuo	Lake Mibgai Co or Miga Tso, in Dartsendo or Kangding 康定[Kang1 ding4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
木棉科	mu	ke	Bombacaceae (botany)
木樨肉	mu	rou	see 木須肉|木须肉[mu4 xu1 rou4]
木版画	mu	hua	woodcut; wood engraving
木犀肉	mu	rou	see 木須肉|木须肉[mu4 xu1 rou4]
木目金	mu	jin	mokuma-gane (loanword)
木管乐器	mu	qi	woodwind instrument
木箱鼓	mu	gu	cajón (musical instrument)
木糖醇	mu	chun	xylitol
木耳菜	mu	cai	Malabar spinach (Basella alba)
木聚糖	mu	tang	xylan
木芙蓉	mu	rong	cotton rose hibiscus (Hibiscus mutabilis)
木菠萝	mu	luo	jackfruit; breadfruit; Artocarpus heterophyllus
木薯淀粉	mu	fen	tapioca
木蠹蛾	mu	e	wood moth; carpenter moth; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
木讷寡言	mu	yan	honest and unaffected but not talkative (idiom)
木讷老人	mu	ren	ungraduated ruler; straight edge
木质素	mu	su	lignin
木质部	mu	bu	xylem
木酮糖	mu	tang	xylulose (type of sugar)
木里县	mu	xian	see 木里藏族自治縣|木里藏族自治县[Mu4 li3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
木里藏族自治县	mu	xian	Muli Tibetan Autonomous County, in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
木须肉	mu	rou	moo shu pork – stir-fried sliced pork with scrambled eggs, wood ear mushrooms and vegetables
木马病毒	mu	du	Trojan horse (type of computer virus)
木马计	mu	ji	wooden horse stratagem (cf Trojan horse)
木骨都束	mu	shu	Chinese name for African kingdom in Somalia, cf Mogadishu 摩加迪沙
木鱼花	mu	hua	see 柴魚片|柴鱼片[chai2 yu2 pian4]
木鳖果	mu	guo	gac fruit (Momordica cochinchinensis)
木齿耙	mu	pa	a rake (with wooden teeth)
未亡人	wei	ren	widow (humble self-reference in former times)
未删节版	wei	ban	unabridged edition; uncut edition
未卜先知	wei	zhi	(idiom) to foresee the future (without divination); to know beforehand through uncanny insight
未受影响	wei	xiang	unaffected; not inconvenienced
未受精	wei	jing	unfertilized (of ova, not soil)
未可厚非	wei	fei	not to be censured too strictly (idiom); not altogether inexcusable; understandable
未可同日而语	wei	yu	lit. mustn't speak of two things on the same day (idiom); not to be mentioned in the same breath; incomparable
未命名	wei	ming	untitled; unnamed; no name
未央区	wei	qu	Weiyang, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
未婚夫	wei	fu	fiancé
未婚妻	wei	qi	fiancée
未尝不可	wei	ke	(idiom) acceptable; fine; okay
未必见得	wei	de	not necessarily; that's not sure
未成冠	wei	guan	minor (old usage, person under 20)
未成年	wei	nian	underage
未成年人	wei	ren	minor (i.e. person under 18)
未成年者	wei	zhe	minor (not an adult)
未敢苟同	wei	tong	can't agree with
未来主义	wei	yi	Futurism (artistic and social movement of the 20th century)
未来可期	wei	qi	the future looks promising; to have a bright future ahead
未来学	wei	xue	future studies
未来式	wei	shi	future tense
未来派	wei	pai	Futurism (artistic and social movement of the 20th century)
未知数	wei	shu	unknown number; (fig.) an unknown; an uncertainty
未知数儿	wei	r	erhua variant of 未知數|未知数[wei4 zhi1 shu4]
未竟之志	wei	zhi	unfulfilled ambition
未经证实	wei	shi	unconfirmed
未置可否	wei	fou	to refuse to comment; same as 不置可否
未老先衰	wei	shuai	to age prematurely
未能免俗	wei	su	unable to break the custom (idiom); bound by conventions
未解之谜	wei	mi	unsolved mystery
未达一间	wei	jian	differing only slightly; not much between them
未遑多让	wei	rang	see 不遑多讓|不遑多让[bu4 huang2 duo1 rang4]
未雨绸缪	wei	mou	lit. before it rains, bind around with silk (idiom, from Book of Songs 詩經|诗经); fig. to plan ahead; to prepare for a rainy day
末代皇帝	mo	di	The Last Emperor, 1987 biopic of Pu Yi 溥儀|溥仪[Pu3 yi2] by Bernardo Bertolucci
末位淘汰	mo	tai	sacking the worst-performing employee; elimination of the worst-performing contestant
末底改	mo	gai	Mordechai (name)
末日论	mo	lun	eschatology
末梢神经	mo	jing	peripheral nerve
末班车	mo	che	last bus or train; last chance
本位主义	ben	yi	selfish departmentalism; departmental selfishness
本位制	ben	zhi	monetary standard
本位号	ben	hao	(music notation) natural sign, ♮
本位货币	ben	bi	local currency; our own currency; abbr. to 本幣|本币
本位音	ben	yin	(music) natural note
本体论	ben	lun	ontology
本内特	ben	te	(surname) Bennett
本初子午线	ben	xian	the first meridian; the prime meridian
本命年	ben	nian	year of one's birth sign, according to the cycle of 12 animals of the earthly branches 地支[di4 zhi1]
本因坊	ben	fang	Honinbo, major school of Go in Japan (1612-1940); title held by the winner of the Honinbo Go tournament (1941-)
本因坊秀策	ben	ce	Honinbo Shusaku (1829–1862), Japanese professional Go player, regarded as one of the greatest in the history of the game
本固枝荣	ben	rong	when the root is firm, the branches flourish
本国人	ben	ren	natives of one's own country
本土化	ben	hua	to localize; localization
本土派	ben	pai	local faction; pro-localization faction (in Taiwanese politics)
本地人	ben	ren	native person (of a country)
本地化	ben	hua	localization; adaptation (to foreign environment)
本地管理界面	ben	mian	LMI; local management interface (telecommunications)
本垒打	ben	da	home run (baseball)
本小利微	ben	wei	(of a small business) to have very little capital and very modest profits
本尼迪	ben	di	Benedictus
本帮菜	ben	cai	Shanghainese food
本年度	ben	du	this year; the current year
本底计数	ben	shu	background count
本底调查	ben	cha	background investigation
本底辐射	ben	she	background radiation
本征值	ben	zhi	(math.) eigenvalue
本征向量	ben	liang	(math.) eigenvector
本性难移	ben	yi	It is hard to change one's essential nature (idiom). You can't change who you are.; Can the leopard change his spots? (Jeremiah 13:23)
本拉登	ben	deng	(Osama) bin Laden (1957-2011), leader of Al Qaeda
本族语	ben	yu	native language; mother tongue
本星期	ben	qi	this week
本末倒置	ben	zhi	lit. to invert root and branch (idiom); fig. confusing cause and effect; to stress the incidental over the fundamental; to put the cart before the horse
本本主义	ben	yi	book worship; bookishness
本本分分	ben	fen	decorous; respectable
本来面目	ben	mu	(idiom) true colors; true features; original appearance
本杰明	ben	ming	Benjamin (person name)
本溪县	ben	xian	see 本溪滿族自治縣|本溪满族自治县[Ben3 xi1 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
本溪市	ben	shi	Benxi, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
本溪满族自治县	ben	xian	Benxi Manchu Autonomous County, in Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
本生灯	ben	deng	Bunsen burner
本益比	ben	bi	P⁄E ratio (price-to-earnings ratio)
本省人	ben	ren	people of this province; (in Taiwan) Han Chinese people other than those who moved to Taiwan from mainland China after 1945 and their descendants
本科生	ben	sheng	undergraduate student
本科系	ben	xi	(university education) major
本笃会	ben	hui	the Benedictines
本笃十六世	ben	shi	Pope Benedict XVI, original name Joseph Alois Ratzinger (1927–2022), pope 2005–2013
本色出演	ben	yan	(of an actor) to play a role that matches one's own character or personality
本草纲目	ben	mu	Compendium of Medical Herbs 1596, compiled by Li Shizhen 李時珍|李时珍[Li3 Shi2 zhen1]
本质上	ben	shang	essentially; inherent
本那比	ben	bi	see 本那比市[Ben3 na4 bi3 shi4]
本那比市	ben	shi	Burnaby, British Columbia, Canada
札格瑞布	zha	bu	(Tw) Zagreb, capital of Croatia
札格雷布	zha	bu	(Tw) Zagreb, capital of Croatia
札达县	zha	xian	Zanda, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
札马剌丁	zha	ding	see 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁[Za1 ma3 la2 ding1]
札马鲁丁	zha	ding	see 紮馬剌丁|扎马剌丁[Za1 ma3 la2 ding1]
朱丽亚	zhu	ya	Julia (name)
朱丽叶	zhu	ye	Juliet or Juliette (name)
朱云折槛	zhu	jian	(idiom) Zhu Yun breaks the railing (Zhu Yun was a Han Dynasty official who accused the emperor's tutor of corruption, and when sentenced to death, clung to the palace hall railing so fiercely while demanding justice that he broke it); (fig.) to speak the truth with unwavering courage; to admonish fearlessly; also pr. [zhu1yun2-she2jian4]
朱允炆	zhu	wen	Zhu Yuanwen, personal name of second Ming Emperor Jianwen 建文[Jian4 Wen2]
朱元璋	zhu	zhang	Zhu Yuanzhang, personal name of first Ming dynasty emperor Hongwu 洪武[Hong2 wu3]
朱利亚尼	zhu	ni	Giuliani (name); Rudolph W (Rudy) Giuliani (1944-), US Republican politician, Mayor of New York City 1994-2001
朱利娅	zhu	ya	Julia (name)
朱利安	zhu	an	Julian or Julien (name)
朱厚照	zhu	zhao	Zhu Houzhao, personal name of tenth Ming emperor 正德[Zheng4 de2] (1491-1521), reigned 1505-1521
朱古力	zhu	li	chocolate (loanword); CL:塊|块[kuai4]
朱孝天	zhu	tian	Ken Zhu (1979-), Taiwanese singer and actor
朱广沪	zhu	hu	Zhu Guanghu (1949-), PRC soccer coach
朱庇特	zhu	te	Jupiter (Roman god)
朱由校	zhu	xiao	personal name of fifteenth Ming emperor Tianqi 明天啟|明天启[Ming2 Tian1 qi3] (1605-1627), reigned 1620-1627
朱瞻基	zhu	ji	Zhu Zhanji, personal name of fifth Ming emperor Xuande 宣德[Xuan1 de2]
朱祁钰	zhu	yu	Zhu Qiyu, personal name of seventh Ming emperor Jingtai 景泰[Jing3 tai4] (1428-1457), reigned 1449-1457
朱祁镇	zhu	zhen	Zhu Qizhen, personal name of sixth and eighth Ming emperor Zhengtong 正統|正统[Zheng4 tong3], afterwards Tianshun Emperor 天順|天顺[Tian1 shun4] (1427-1464), reigned 1435-1449 and 1457-1464
朱立伦	zhu	lun	Eric Chu (1961-), Taiwanese KMT politician
朱红灯	zhu	deng	Zhu Hongdeng, one of the leaders of the Boxer Rebellion
朱背啄花鸟	zhu	niao	(bird species of China) scarlet-backed flowerpecker (Dicaeum cruentatum)
朱自清	zhu	qing	Zhu Ziqing (1898-1948), poet and essayist
朱莉娅	zhu	ya	Julia (name)
朱迪亚	zhu	ya	Judea
朱镕基	zhu	ji	Zhu Rongji (1928-), PRC politician, premier 1998-2003
朱高炽	zhu	chi	Zhu Gaochi, personal name of fourth Ming emperor Hongxi 洪熙[Hong2 Xi1]
朴子市	pu	shi	Puzi or Putzu City in Chiayi County 嘉義縣|嘉义县[Jia1 yi4 Xian4], west Taiwan
朴实无华	pu	hua	(idiom) simple; plain; unadorned
朴智星	piao	xing	Park Ji-sung (1981-), South Korean former footballer, played for Manchester United (2005-2012)
朴槿惠	piao	hui	Park Geun-hye (1952-), Korean politician, daughter of former dictator Park Chung-Hee 朴正熙[Piao2 Zheng4 xi1], president of Korea 2013-2017
朴次茅斯	pu	si	Portsmouth, southern English seaport
朴正熙	piao	xi	Park Chung-Hee (1917-1979), South Korean military man and dictator, president 1963-1979, influential in developing Korean industry, murdered by his bodyguard
机不可失	ji	shi	No time to lose! (idiom)
机不可失失不再来	ji	lai	opportunity knocks but once (idiom)
机不可失时不再来	ji	lai	Opportunity knocks but once. (idiom)
机不离手	ji	shou	to be unable to do without one's cell phone
机会主义	ji	yi	opportunism; pragmatism
机会成本	ji	ben	opportunity cost
机关布景	ji	jing	machine-operated stage scenery
机关报	ji	bao	official (government-operated) newspaper
机关枪	ji	qiang	machine gun; also written 機槍|机枪[ji1 qiang1]
机关炮	ji	pao	machine cannon; machine-gun cannon
机关车	ji	che	locomotive
机加酒	ji	jiu	flight and hotel (travel package) (abbr. for 機票加酒店|机票加酒店[ji1 piao4 jia1 jiu3 dian4])
机务段	ji	duan	locomotive depot
机动性	ji	xing	flexibility
机动车	ji	che	motor vehicle
机动车辆	ji	liang	motor vehicle
机哩瓜拉	ji	la	(Taiwan) see 嘰哩咕嚕|叽哩咕噜[ji1 li5 gu1 lu1]
机器人	ji	ren	robot; android
机器人学	ji	xue	robotics
机器学习	ji	xi	(computing) machine learning
机器翻译	ji	yi	machine translation
机器脚踏车	ji	che	(dialect) motorcycle; abbr. to 機車|机车[ji1 che1]
机场大厦	ji	sha	airport terminal
机头座	ji	zuo	headstock; turning head of a screw, drill, lathe etc
机密性	ji	xing	confidentiality
机密文件	ji	jian	secret document
机建费	ji	fei	airport construction fee (abbr. for 機場建設費|机场建设费)
机械人	ji	ren	(HK) robot
机械化	ji	hua	to mechanize
机械工	ji	gong	a mechanic
机械工人	ji	ren	mechanic
机械工程	ji	cheng	mechanical engineering
机械师	ji	shi	mechanic; engineer; machinist
机械性	ji	xing	mechanical
机械战警	ji	jing	RoboCop (movie)
机械码	ji	ma	machine code
机械硬盘	ji	pan	(computing) hard disk drive (HDD)
机械翻译	ji	yi	machine translation
机械能	ji	neng	mechanical energy
机械臂	ji	bi	robotic arm
机械表	ji	biao	mechanical watch
机械语言	ji	yan	machine language
机械钟	ji	zhong	mechanical clock
机械降神	ji	shen	deus ex machina
机灵鬼	ji	gui	(jocular) clever and quick-witted person
机踏车	ji	che	motorcycle (Tw); abbr. for 機器腳踏車|机器脚踏车[ji1 qi4 jiao3 ta4 che1]
机顶盒	ji	he	set-top box
朽木不可雕	xiu	diao	lit. rotten wood cannot be carved (idiom); fig. you can't make a silk purse out of a sow's ear
杀一儆百	sha	bai	lit. kill one to warn a hundred (idiom); to punish an individual as an example to others; pour encourager les autres
杀一警百	sha	bai	variant of 殺一儆百|杀一儆百[sha1 yi1 jing3 bai3]
杀人不眨眼	sha	yan	to murder without blinking an eye (idiom); ruthless; cold-blooded
杀人不过头点地	sha	di	It's all exaggeration, you don't need to take it seriously; a fuss about nothing; nothing to write home about
杀人如草	sha	cao	see 殺人如麻|杀人如麻[sha1 ren2 ru2 ma2]
杀人如麻	sha	ma	(lit.) to kill people like scything flax (idiom); (fig.) to kill people like flies
杀人放火	sha	huo	to kill and burn (idiom); murder and arson
杀人未遂	sha	sui	attempted murder
杀人案	sha	an	murder case; homicide case
杀人案件	sha	jian	(case of, incident of) murder
杀人灭口	sha	kou	(idiom) to kill sb to prevent them from revealing sth
杀人犯	sha	fan	murderer; homicide
杀人狂	sha	kuang	homicidal maniac
杀人越货	sha	huo	to kill sb for his property (idiom); to murder for money
杀人鲸	sha	jing	orca; killer whale (Orcinus orca)
杀伤力	sha	li	destructive power; harmfulness
杀出重围	sha	wei	to force one's way out of encirclement; to break through
杀千刀	sha	dao	damn; friggin'; goddamn; fucking
杀千刀的	sha	de	bastard; scumbag; son of a bitch
杀君马者道旁儿	sha	er	lit. bystanders killed the king's horse (idiom) (based on an ancient story in which people along the road cheered a horseman on as he galloped past, until the horse died of exhaustion); fig. beware of becoming complacent when everyone is cheering you on
杀富济贫	sha	pin	robbing the rich to help the poor
杀彘教子	sha	zi	to kill a pig as a lesson to the children (idiom); parents must teach by example
杀手级应用	sha	yong	killer application; killer app
杀手锏	sha	jian	(fig.) trump card
杀毒软件	sha	jian	antivirus software
杀气腾腾	sha	teng	ferocious; murderous-looking
杀猪宰羊	sha	yang	to kill the pigs and slaughter the sheep (idiom)
杀猪盘	sha	pan	pig butchering scam (where the scammer builds trust with the victim over time, "fattening them up," before ultimately "slaughtering" them by taking their money); (esp.) romance scam
杀真菌	sha	jun	fungicidal; to have a fungicidal effect
杀真菌剂	sha	ji	fungicide
杀草快	sha	kuai	diquat
杀菌剂	sha	ji	germicide; antimicrobial agent
杀虫剂	sha	ji	insecticide; pesticide
杀虫药	sha	yao	insecticide
杀螺剂	sha	ji	snail poison
杀身之祸	sha	huo	(idiom) getting killed
杀身成仁	sha	ren	(idiom) to die a martyr; to be martyred
杀进杀出	sha	chu	to execute a lightning raid; (investment) to buy, then quickly sell; (tourism) to visit a destination for only a short stay
杀风景	sha	jing	variant of 煞風景|煞风景[sha1 feng1 jing3]
杀马特	sha	te	Chinese youth subculture associated esp. with young migrant workers, characterized by flamboyant hairstyles and clothing, heavy makeup, piercings etc (loanword from "smart")
杀鸡儆猴	sha	hou	(lit.) to kill the chicken to warn the monkey (idiom); (fig.) to punish an individual as an example to others
杀鸡取卵	sha	luan	lit. to kill the chicken to get the eggs (idiom); fig. to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs
杀鸡吓猴	sha	hou	see 殺雞儆猴|杀鸡儆猴[sha1 ji1 jing3 hou2]
杀鸡焉用牛刀	sha	dao	(lit.) why use an ox-cleaver to kill a chicken?; (fig.) there's no need to use great ability or resources for a trivial task
杀鸡给猴看	sha	kan	lit. to kill a chicken in front of a monkey; fig. to make an example of sb (by punishment) to frighten others
杀鸡骇猴	sha	hou	see 殺雞儆猴|杀鸡儆猴[sha1 ji1 jing3 hou2]
杀鼠药	sha	yao	rat poison
杂七杂八	za	ba	an assortment; a bit of everything; lots of different (skills)
杂乱无章	za	zhang	disordered and in a mess (idiom); all mixed up and chaotic
杂交植物	za	wu	hybrid plant
杂交派对	za	dui	(Tw) sex party; orgy
杂件儿	za	r	miscellaneous goods
杂剧四大家	za	jia	Four Great Yuan Dramatists, namely: Guan Hanqing 關漢卿|关汉卿[Guan1 Han4 qing1], Zheng Guangzu 鄭光祖|郑光祖[Zheng4 Guang1 zu3], Ma Zhiyuan 馬致遠|马致远[Ma3 Zhi4 yuan3] and Bai Pu 白樸|白朴[Bai2 Pu3]
杂合子	za	zi	(genetics) heterozygote
杂和面	za	mian	corn flour mixed with a little soybean flour
杂和面儿	za	r	erhua variant of 雜和麵|杂和面[za2 huo5 mian4]
杂多县	za	xian	Zadoi, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
杂居地区	za	qu	area of mixed habitation
杂志社	za	she	magazine publisher
杂技演员	za	yuan	acrobat
杂拌儿	za	r	erhua variant of 雜拌|杂拌[za2 ban4]
杂牌儿	za	r	erhua variant of 雜牌|杂牌[za2 pai2]
杂牌军	za	jun	miscellaneous troops; irregular troops; troops of varied allegiances; uncertified staff
杂色噪鹛	za	mei	(bird species of China) variegated laughingthrush (Trochalopteron variegatum)
杂色山雀	za	que	(bird species of China) varied tit (Sittiparus varius)
杂谷脑	za	nao	Zagunao River in Sichuan, tributary of the Min River 岷江[Min2 Jiang1]
杂货商	za	shang	grocer
杂货店	za	dian	grocery store; emporium
杂货摊	za	tan	stall selling various goods
杂食动物	za	wu	omnivore
权利人	quan	ren	(law) rightholder; party entitled to a legal right (e.g. to property, copyright etc)
权利声明	quan	ming	copyright statement
权利法案	quan	an	bill of rights
权利要求	quan	qiu	claim to rights (copyright, patent etc)
权力斗争	quan	zheng	power struggle
权力的游戏	quan	xi	Game of Thrones (TV series)
权力纷争	quan	zheng	power struggle
权变理论	quan	lun	contingency theory (theory of leadership)
权威性	quan	xing	authority; authoritativeness
权宜之策	quan	ce	stratagem of convenience (idiom); stop-gap measure; makeshift plan; interim step
权宜之计	quan	ji	plan of convenience (idiom); stop-gap measure; makeshift stratagem; interim step
权欲熏心	quan	xin	obsessed by a craving for power; power-hungry
权衡利弊	quan	bi	to weigh the pros and cons (idiom)
李世民	li	min	Li Shimin, personal name of second Tang emperor Taizong 唐太宗[Tang2 Tai4 zong1] (599-649), reigned 626-649
李丽珊	li	shan	Lee Lai-Shan (1970-), former windsurfing world champion from Hong Kong
李亚鹏	li	peng	Li Yapeng (1971-), PRC actor
李代数	li	shu	Lie algebra (math.)
李代桃僵	li	jiang	lit. the plum tree withers in place of the peach tree; to substitute one thing for another; to carry the can for sb
李会昌	li	chang	Lee Hoi-chang (1935-), South Korean politician
李伯元	li	yuan	Li Boyuan or Li Baojia 李寶嘉|李宝嘉 (1867-1906), late Qing journalist, novelist and social observer, author of Observations on the current state of officialdom 官場現形記|官场现形记
李修贤	li	xian	Danny Lee Sau-Yin (1953-), Hong Kong actor and director
李元昊	li	hao	Li Yuanhao (1003-1048), founding king of Xixia 西夏[Xi1 Xia4] around modern Ningxia 寧夏|宁夏[Ning2 xia4]
李先念	li	nian	Li Xiannian (1909-1992), PRC general and politician
李光耀	li	yao	Lee Kuan Yew (1923-2015), founding father of modern Singapore, prime minister 1959-1990
李克强	li	qiang	Li Keqiang (1955–2023), PRC politician, premier 2013–2023
李公朴	li	pu	Li Gongpu (-1946), communist killed by Guomindang in Kunming in 1946
李冰冰	li	bing	Li Bingbing (1973-), PRC film actress and pop star
李劼人	li	ren	Li Jieren (1891-1962), novelist
李卫公	li	gong	Li Wei Gong; Duke Li of Wei, official title of Li Jing 李靖[Li3 Jing4]
李叔同	li	tong	Liu Shutong (1880-1942), painter, Buddhist monk and distinguished figure in New Culture Movement 新文化運動|新文化运动[Xin1 Wen2 hua4 Yun4 dong4] after the Xinhai Revolution 辛亥革命[Xin1 hai4 Ge2 ming4] of 1911
李后主	li	zhu	Li Houzhu (c. 937-978), the final Southern Tang ruler (ruled 961-975) and a renowned poet; given name Li Yu 李煜
李商隐	li	yin	Li Shangyin (c. 813-858), Tang poet
李嘉欣	li	xin	Michele Monique Reis (1970-) actress, model and former Miss Hong Kong & Miss Chinese International
李嘉诚	li	cheng	Sir Li Ka-shing (1928-), Hong Kong businessman
李四光	li	guang	Li Siguang (1889-1971), Mongol-born, Japanese-trained geologist, prominent in early PRC oil exploration
李国豪	li	hao	Brandon Lee (1965-1993), American actor, son of Bruce Lee
李大钊	li	zhao	Li Dazhao (1889-1927), early Chinese Marxist and founding member of the communist party
李天王	li	wang	the pagoda bearing god
李天禄	li	lu	Li Tianlu (1910-1998), Taiwanese master puppeteer
李娃传	li	zhuan	Tale of Courtesan Li Wa, novel by Tang writer Bai Xingjian 白行簡|白行简[Bai2 Xing2 jian3] along the lines of La Traviata, favorite opera plot
李季兰	li	lan	Li Jilan or Li Ye 李冶[Li3 Ye3] (713-784), Tang dynasty female poet
李宇春	li	chun	Li Yuchun aka Chris Lee (1984-), Chinese pop singer
李宗仁	li	ren	Li Zongren (1891-1969), a leader of Guangxi warlord faction
李宗盛	li	sheng	Jonathan Lee (1958–), Taiwanese record producer and songwriter
李宝嘉	li	jia	Li Boyuan 李伯元 or Li Baojia (1867-1906), late Qing journalist, novelist and social observer, author of Observations on the current state of officialdom 官場現形記|官场现形记
李富春	li	chun	Li Fuchun (1900–1975), Chinese Communist revolutionary and politician, served as Vice Premier of the PRC
李小龙	li	long	Bruce Lee (1940-1973), Hong Kong actor and martial arts expert
李尔王	li	wang	King Lear, 1605 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
李岚清	li	qing	Li Lanqing (1932-), PRC politician
李希霍芬	li	fen	Ferdinand von Richthofen (1833-1905), German geologist and explorer who published a major foundational study of the geology of China in 1887 and first introduced the term Silk Road 絲綢之路|丝绸之路
李延寿	li	shou	Li Yanshou (fl. 650), compiler of History of the Southern 南史 and Northern Dynasties 北史
李建成	li	cheng	Li Jiancheng (589-626), eldest son of first Tang emperor Li Yuan 唐高祖李淵|唐高祖李渊, murdered by his brother 李世民 in the Xuanwu Gate coup 玄武門之變|玄武门之变; Professor Li Jiancheng (1964-), geophysicist and specialist in satellite geodesy
李开复	li	fu	Kai-Fu Lee (1961-), Taiwanese computer scientist and IT executive, founding president of Google China 2005-2009
李彦宏	li	hong	Robin Li (1968–), founder and CEO of Baidu 百度[Bai3 du4], a PRC Internet company
李德林	li	lin	Li Delin (530-590), historian of Northern Wei and Sui dynasty
李怀远	li	yuan	Li Huaiyuan (-756), senior Tang dynasty official
李成桂	li	gui	Yi Seong-gye (1335-1408), founder and first king of Korean Yi dynasty (1392-1910)
李成江	li	jiang	Li Chengjiang (1979-), Chinese figure skater
李承晚	li	wan	Syngman Rhee (1875-1965), US-trained Korean politician and dictator, president of Republic of Korea 1948-1960
李振藩	li	fan	Li Zhenfan (1940-1973), real name of the actor Bruce Lee 李小龍|李小龙[Li3 Xiao3 long2]
李政道	li	dao	Tsung-Dao Lee (1926–2024), Chinese American physicist, Columbia University, 1957 Nobel laureate
李敏勇	li	yong	Li Minyong (1947-), Taiwanese poet
李斯特	li	te	Ferenc (Franz) Liszt (1811-1886), Hungarian composer; Joseph Lister (1883-1897), British surgeon and bacteriologist
李斯特氏杆菌	li	jun	listeria bacillus
李斯特氏菌	li	jun	listeria bacillus
李斯特菌	li	jun	Listeria monocytogene
李时珍	li	zhen	Li Shizhen (1518-1593), Ming botanist and pharmacologist, author of Compendium of Medical Herbs 本草綱目|本草纲目[Ben3 cao3 Gang1 mu4]
李昌镐	li	hao	Lee Chang-ho (1975–), South Korean professional Go player
李明博	li	bo	Lee Myung-bak (1941-), South Korean businessman, one-time chairman of Hyundai, president of South Korea 2008-2013
李显龙	li	long	Lee Hsien Loong (1952-), Singapore PAP politician, eldest son of Lee Kuan Yew 李光耀[Li3 Guang1 yao4], prime minister from 2004
李朝威	li	wei	Li Chaowei (c. 766-c. 820), Tang writer of fantasy fiction 傳奇|传奇, author of 柳毅傳|柳毅传
李林甫	li	fu	Li Linfu (-752), Tang politician, chancellor under Tang emperor Xuanzong 玄宗
李格非	li	fei	Li Gefei (active c. 1090), Northern Song writer and father of southern Song female poet Li Qingzhao 李清照
李氏朝鲜	li	xian	Joseon, last Korean dynasty (1392-1910)
李汝珍	li	zhen	Li Ruzhen (c. 1763-c. 1830), Qing novelist and phonologist, author of fantasy novel Jinghua Yuan 鏡花緣|镜花缘 or Flowers in the Mirror
李沧区	li	qu	Licang, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
李泽楷	li	kai	Richard Li (1966-), Hong Kong businessman and philanthropist
李洪志	li	zhi	Li Hongzhi (1951–), founder of Falun Gong 法輪功|法轮功[Fa3 lun2 gong1]
李清照	li	zhao	Li Qingzhao (1084-c. 1151), southern Song female poet
李源潮	li	chao	Li Yuanchao (1950-), vice president of PRC from 2013-2018
李瑞环	li	huan	Li Ruihuan (1934-), former Chinese politician
李登辉	li	hui	Lee Teng-hui (1923–2020), Taiwanese politician, president of the Republic of China 1988–2000
李百药	li	yao	Li Baiyao (565-648), Tang dynasty writer and historian, compiler of History of Qi of the Northern dynasties 北齊書|北齐书
李直夫	li	fu	Li Zhifu (c. 14th century), Yuan dynasty playwright in the 雜劇|杂剧[za2 ju4] style
李约瑟	li	se	Joseph Needham (1900-1995), British biochemist and author of Science and Civilization in China
李维史陀	li	tuo	Claude Lévi-Strauss (1908-2009), French social anthropologist
李维斯	li	si	Levi's (brand)
李绿园	li	yuan	Li Lüyuan (1707-1790), Qing dynasty writer, author of novel Lamp in the Side Street 岐路燈|岐路灯[Qi2 lu4 Deng1]
李肇星	li	xing	Li Zhaoxing (1940-), former PRC foreign minister
李自成	li	cheng	Li Zicheng (1605-1645), leader of peasant rebellion at the end of the Ming Dynasty
李舜臣	li	chen	Yi Sunshin (1545-1598), Korean admiral and folk hero, famous for sea victories over the Japanese invaders
李英儒	li	ru	Li Yingru (1913-1989), calligrapher and writer, author of many novels about the war as seen by the communists
李远哲	li	zhe	Yuan T. Lee (1936-), Taiwanese-born Chemist and Nobel Prize winner in 1986
李连杰	li	jie	Jet Li (1963–), Chinese martial artist, actor and film director
李重茂	li	mao	Li Chongmao, personal name of fifth Tang emperor Shang 唐殤帝|唐殇帝[Tang2 Shang1 Di4] (c. 695-715), reigned 710
李铁拐	li	guai	Iron-Crutch Li, one of the Eight Immortals 八仙[Ba1 xian1] in Chinese mythology, walking around with an iron crutch and carrying a gourd with special medicine
李长春	li	chun	Li Changchun (1944-), PRC politician
李隆基	li	ji	personal name of seventh Tang emperor Xuanzong 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1] (685-762), reigned 712-756
李雪健	li	jian	Li Xuejian (1954-), Chinese actor
李鸿章	li	zhang	Li Hung-chang or Li Hongzhang (1823-1901), Qing dynasty general, politician and diplomat
李鸿章杂碎	li	sui	chop suey (American Chinese dish)
杏仁体	xing	ti	amygdala
杏仁果	xing	guo	(Tw) almond
杏仁核	xing	he	amygdala
杏仁豆腐	xing	fu	almond tofu; almond jelly (dessert made with apricot kernel milk, sugar and agar)
杏林区	xing	qu	Xinglin District of Xiamen city 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 shi4] (renamed Haicang District 海滄區|海沧区[Hai3 cang1 Qu1] in 2003)
杏脸桃腮	xing	sai	(idiom) (of a woman) having a fair complexion with rosy cheeks; beautiful
杏花岭	xing	ling	see 杏花嶺區|杏花岭区[Xing4 hua1 ling3 Qu1]
杏花岭区	xing	qu	Xinghualing, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
杏花村	xing	cun	village of blossoming apricot trees where one can find a wineshop (reference to the famous poem 清明 by 杜牧[Du4 Mu4])
杏鲍菇	xing	gu	king oyster mushroom (Pleurotus eryngii)
材料学	cai	xue	materials science
材料科学	cai	xue	materials science
村上春树	cun	shu	MURAKAMI Haruki (1949-), Japanese novelist and translator
村上隆	cun	long	Murakami Takashi (1963-), Japanese artist
村委会	cun	hui	village committee
村山富市	cun	shi	Tomiichi Murayama (1924-), former prime minister of Japan
村证房	cun	fang	"village-certificated house", residence supposedly only transferable to other village residents but often sold on the open market
杖头木偶	zhang	ou	zhangtou wooden rod puppetry
杜伊斯堡	du	bao	Duisburg, city in the Ruhr 魯爾區|鲁尔区[Lu3 er3 Qu1], Germany
杜冷丁	du	ding	(medicine) dolantin (loanword); pethidine
杜口裹足	du	zu	too frightened to move or speak
杜嘉班纳	du	na	Dolce & Gabbana (fashion brand)
杜塞尔多夫	du	fu	Düsseldorf (city in Germany)
杜塞道夫	du	fu	(Tw) Düsseldorf (city in Germany)
杜宾犬	du	quan	Doberman (dog breed)
杜尔伯特	du	te	see 杜爾伯特蒙古族自治縣|杜尔伯特蒙古族自治县[Du4 er3 bo2 te4 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
杜尔伯特县	du	xian	see 杜爾伯特蒙古族自治縣|杜尔伯特蒙古族自治县[Du4 er3 bo2 te4 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
杜尚别	du	bie	Dushanbe, capital of Tajikistan
杜布罗夫尼克	du	ke	Dubrovnik (city in Croatia)
杜月笙	du	sheng	Du Yuesheng (1888-1951), Shanghai secret-society leader, banker, industrialist
杜本内	du	nei	Dubonnet (name); Dubonnet (red vermouth aperitif wine)
杜松子	du	zi	juniper berry
杜松子酒	du	jiu	gin
杜氏腺	du	xian	Dufour gland (produces female sex hormone in bees)
杜氏腺体	du	ti	Dufour gland (produces female sex hormone in bees)
杜渐防萌	du	meng	to nip in the bud
杜琪峰	du	feng	Johnnie To (1955-), Hong Kong film director
杜瓦利埃	du	ai	Duvalier (name)
杜甫草堂	du	tang	Du Fu's Thatched Cottage (park and museum in Chengdu)
杜笃玛	du	ma	Dodoma, capital of Tanzania (Tw)
杜荀鹤	du	he	Du Xunhe (846-904), Tang poet
杜莎夫人	du	ren	Madame Tussaud (1761–1850), French wax sculptor who founded the eponymous wax museum in London
杜蕾斯	du	si	Durex, a condom brand name
杜门不出	du	chu	see 閉門不出|闭门不出[bi4 men2 bu4 chu1]
杜集区	du	qu	Duji, a district of Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
杜鹃啼血	du	xue	lit. the cuckoo, after its tears are exhausted, continues by weeping blood (idiom); fig. extreme grief
杜鹃座	du	zuo	Tucana (constellation)
杜鹃科	du	ke	Cuculidae, bird family including cuckoo 杜鵑鳥|杜鹃鸟
杜鹃花	du	hua	Indian Azalea (Rhododendron simsii Planch)
杜鹃花科	du	ke	Ericaceae (botany), genus containing rhododendron and azalea
杜鹃鸟	du	niao	cuckoo (Cercococcyx spp.)
杞人之忧	qi	you	(lit.) the fear held by a man of 杞[Qi3] that the sky would fall (idiom); (fig.) groundless fears
杞人忧天	qi	tian	(lit.) like the man of 杞[Qi3] who feared the sky would fall (idiom); (fig.) to entertain groundless fears
杞国之忧	qi	you	see 杞人之憂|杞人之忧[Qi3 ren2 zhi1 you1]
杞国忧天	qi	tian	see 杞人憂天|杞人忧天[Qi3 ren2 you1 tian1]
杞天之虑	qi	lv	see 杞人之憂|杞人之忧[Qi3 ren2 zhi1 you1]
杞梓之林	qi	lin	(idiom) a multitude of talented people
束之高阁	shu	ge	tied up in a bundle on a high shelf; to put sth on the back burner; no longer a high priority
束手就擒	shu	qin	(lit.) to submit to having one's hands tied and being taken prisoner (idiom); (fig.) to surrender without a fight
束手就毙	shu	bi	hands tied and expecting the worst
束手待死	shu	si	hands tied and expecting the worst
束手待毙	shu	bi	to wait helplessly for death (idiom); to resign oneself to extinction
束手无策	shu	ce	lit. to have one's hands bound and be unable to do anything about it (idiom); fig. helpless in the face of a crisis
束手束脚	shu	jiao	(idiom) restricted; constrained; inhibited
束手缚脚	shu	jiao	see 束手束腳|束手束脚[shu4 shou3 shu4 jiao3]
束线带	shu	dai	cable tie
束身内衣	shu	yi	corset
杠杆收购	gang	gou	leveraged buyout (LBO)
杠杠的	gang	de	(slang) (originally northeast dialect) excellent; great
条件反射	tiao	she	conditioned reflex
条件反应	tiao	ying	conditioned response
条件句	tiao	ju	conditional clause
条件式	tiao	shi	conditional
条件概率	tiao	lv	conditional probability
条分缕析	tiao	xi	to analyze thoroughly, point by point (idiom)
条幅广告	tiao	gao	banner advertisement
条形图	tiao	tu	bar chart
条形码	tiao	ma	barcode
条条大路通罗马	tiao	ma	all roads lead to Rome; use different means to obtain the same result (idiom)
条条框框	tiao	kuang	fixed framework (idiom); restriction of social conventions and taboos (usually derogatory); regulations and restrictions
条板箱	tiao	xiang	crate
条纹噪鹛	tiao	mei	(bird species of China) striated laughingthrush (Grammatoptila striata)
来不及	lai	ji	there's not enough time (to do sth); it's too late
来不得	lai	de	cannot allow (to be present); cannot admit
来之不易	lai	yi	(idiom) hard to come by; not easily obtained
来凤县	lai	xian	Laifeng, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
来历不明	lai	ming	(idiom) of unknown origin; of dubious background
来去无踪	lai	zong	come without a shadow, leave without a footprint (idiom); to come and leave without a trace
来回来去	lai	qu	repeatedly; back and forth again and again
来复枪	lai	qiang	rifle (loanword); also written 來福槍|来福枪
来复线	lai	xian	rifling (spiral lines on inside of gun barrel imparting spin to the bullet)
来安县	lai	xian	Lai'an, a county in Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
来宾市	lai	shi	Laibin, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
来得及	lai	ji	to have enough time; can do it in time; can still make it
来得早不如来得巧	lai	qiao	arriving early can't beat coming at the right time; perfect timing
来无影去无踪	lai	zong	lit. come without a shadow, leave without a footprint (idiom); to come and go without a trace
来日方长	lai	chang	the future is long (idiom); there will be ample time for that later; We'll cross that bridge when we get there
来源于	lai	yu	to originate in
来火儿	lai	r	to get angry
来电显示	lai	shi	caller ID
来电答铃	lai	ling	(Tw) ringback tone (heard by the originator of a telephone call)
来硬的	lai	de	to get tough; to use force
来福枪	lai	qiang	rifle (loanword); also written 來復槍|来复枪
来福线	lai	xian	rifling (helical grooves inside the barrel of a gun)
来者不善善者不来	lai	lai	He who comes is surely ill-intentioned, no-one well-meaning will come (idiom).; Be careful not to trust foreigners.; Beware of Greeks bearing gifts!
来者不拒	lai	ju	to refuse nobody (idiom); all comers welcome
来而不往非礼也	lai	ye	not to reciprocate is against etiquette (classical); to respond in kind
来苏糖	lai	tang	lyxose (type of sugar)
来访者	lai	zhe	visitor; (psychological counseling) client
来路不明	lai	ming	unidentified origin; no-one knows where it comes from; of dubious background
来踪去迹	lai	ji	(lit.) the traces of a person's movements (idiom); (fig.) sb's history; the ins and out of a matter
来鸿去燕	lai	yan	lit. the goose comes, the swallow goes (idiom); fig. always on the move
来龙去脉	lai	mai	(lit.) the rise and fall of the terrain (idiom); (fig.) the whole sequence of events; causes and effects
杨丞琳	yang	lin	Rainie Yang (1984-), Taiwanese entertainer
杨凝式	yang	shi	Yang Ningshi (873-954) calligrapher of the Five Dynasties period
杨利伟	yang	wei	Yang Liwei (1965–), the first Chinese astronaut sent into space
杨守仁	yang	ren	Yang Shouren (1912-2005), PRC agricultural scientist; Yang Shouren (16th century), Ming dynasty scholar
杨宝森	yang	sen	Yang Baosen (1909-1958), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
杨家将	yang	jiang	Yang Saga, a popular fiction from the Northern Song, depicting the heroic Yang family 楊業|杨业 of warriors
杨尚昆	yang	kun	Yang Shangkun (1907-1998), former president of PRC and military leader
杨建利	yang	li	Yang JianLi, PRC human rights activist
杨开慧	yang	hui	Yang Kaihui (1901-1930), Mao Zedong's second wife
杨振宁	yang	ning	Chen-Ning Franklin Yang (1922–2025), theoretical physicist, co-developer of Yang-Mills gauge theory, 1957 Nobel laureate
杨月清	yang	qing	Yang Yueqing, Chinese-Canadian woman documentary film director
杨树菇	yang	gu	poplar mushroom (Cyclocybe aegerita)
杨洁篪	yang	chi	Yang Jiechi (1950-), Chinese politician and diplomat, foreign minister of PRC 2007-2013
杨浦区	yang	qu	Yangpu district, central Shanghai
杨深秀	yang	xiu	Yang Shenxiu (1849-1898), one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子[Wu4 xu1 Liu4 jun1 zi5] of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
杨澄中	yang	zhong	Yang Chengzhong (1913-1987), Chinese nuclear physicist
杨玉环	yang	huan	Yang Yuhuan, aka Yang Guifei 楊貴妃|杨贵妃[Yang2 Gui4 fei1] (719-756), famous Tang beauty, consort of Emperor Xuanzhong 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1]
杨百翰	yang	han	Brigham Young
杨百翰大学	yang	xue	Brigham Young University
杨福家	yang	jia	Yang Fujia (1936-), nuclear physicist
杨秀清	yang	qing	Yang Xiuqing (1821-1856), organizer and commander-in-chief of the Taiping Rebellion
杨致远	yang	yuan	Jerry Yang (1968-), Taiwan-US millionaire and creator of Yahoo
杨虎城	yang	cheng	Yang Hucheng (1893-1949), Chinese warlord and Nationalist general
杨贵妃	yang	fei	Yang Guifei (719-756), famous Tang beauty, consort of Emperor Xuanzhong 唐玄宗[Tang2 Xuan2 zong1]
杨采妮	yang	ni	Charlie Young (1974-), Hong Kong actress and singer
杨陵区	yang	qu	Yangling, a district of Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
杭州市	hang	shi	Hangzhou, sub-provincial city and capital of Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
杭州湾	hang	wan	Hangzhou Bay
杭锦后旗	hang	qi	Hanggin Rear banner or Xanggin Xoit khoshuu in Bayan Nur 巴彥淖爾|巴彦淖尔[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3], Inner Mongolia
杭锦旗	hang	qi	Hanggin banner, Mongolian Xanggin khoshuu, in Ordos prefecture 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
杯中物	bei	wu	the contents of the cup; (fig.) liquor; wine
杯弓蛇影	bei	ying	lit. to see a bow reflected in a cup as a snake (idiom); fig. unnecessary suspicions; overly fearful
杯水车薪	bei	xin	lit. a cup of water on a burning cart of firewood (idiom); fig. an utterly inadequate measure
杯盘狼藉	bei	ji	cups and dishes in complete disorder (idiom); after a riotous drinking party
杯酒解怨	bei	yuan	a wine cup dissolves complaints (idiom); a few drinks can ease social interaction
杯酒言欢	bei	huan	a few drinks and a nice conversation (idiom)
杯酒释兵权	bei	quan	to dismiss military hierarchy using wine cups; cf Song founding Emperor Song Taizu 宋太祖 holds a banquet in 961 and persuades his senior army commanders to go home to their provinces
杰伊汉港	jie	gang	Ceyhan (Turkish Mediterranean port)
杰佛兹	jie	zi	James Jeffords (1934-2014), former US Senator from Vermont
杰克森	jie	sen	Jackson (name)
杰克逊	jie	xun	Jackson (name); Jackson city, capital of Mississippi
杰利蝾螈	jie	yuan	(loanword) gerrymander
杰士派	jie	pai	Gatsby, Japanese cosmetics brand
杰奎琳	jie	lin	Jacqueline (name)
杰弗逊	jie	xun	Jefferson; capital of Missouri
杰拉德	jie	de	Gerrard (name)
杰斐逊城	jie	cheng	Jefferson City, capital of Missouri
杰西卡	jie	ka	Jessica (name)
杰里科	jie	ke	Jericho (town in West Bank)
杰里米	jie	mi	Jeremy (name)
杳如黄鹤	yao	he	to be gone forever (idiom); to disappear without a trace
杳无人烟	yao	yan	see 杳無人跡|杳无人迹[yao3 wu2 ren2 ji4]
杳无人迹	yao	ji	(idiom) without trace of human presence; uninhabited; deserted
杳无消息	yao	xi	see 杳無音信|杳无音信[yao3 wu2 yin1 xin4]
杳无音信	yao	xin	to have no news whatever
松一口气	song	qi	to heave a sigh of relief
松下公司	song	si	Panasonic Corporation (formerly Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.)
松下电器	song	qi	Panasonic Corporation (formerly Matsushita Electric Industrial Co.)
松下电气工业	song	ye	Matsushita Electronics Industry
松化石	song	shi	turquoise (gemstone); also written 松石
松北区	song	qu	Songbei, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
松原市	song	shi	Songyuan, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
松口蘑	song	mo	matsutake (Tricholoma matsutake), edible mushroom considered a great delicacy in Japan
松坡湖	song	hu	see 草海[Cao3 hai3]
松山区	song	qu	Songshan or Sungshan District of Taipei City 臺北市|台北市[Tai2 bei3 Shi4], Taiwan; Songshan District of Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
松岭区	song	qu	Songling, a district of Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
松巴哇	song	wa	Sumbawa, Indonesian island east of Java
松巴哇岛	song	dao	Sumbawa, Indonesian island east of Java
松弛法	song	fa	relaxation (alternative medicine)
松果体	song	ti	pineal body
松果体素	song	su	(biochemistry) melatonin
松果腺	song	xian	pineal body
松桃县	song	xian	see 松桃苗族自治縣|松桃苗族自治县[Song1 tao2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
松桃苗族自治县	song	xian	Songtao Miao Autonomous County, in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
松江区	song	qu	Songjiang suburban district of Shanghai
松溪县	song	xian	Songxi, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
松滋市	song	shi	Songzi, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
松潘县	song	xian	Songpan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
松狮犬	song	quan	Chow Chow (dog breed)
松糕鞋	song	xie	platform shoes
松紧带	song	dai	(a length of) elastic
松节油	song	you	turpentine
松花江	song	jiang	Songhua River in Jilin province 吉林省 through Harbin 哈爾濱|哈尔滨[Ha1 er3 bin1], a tributary of Heilongjiang 黑龍江|黑龙江
松花蛋	song	dan	century egg; preserved egg
松赞干布	song	bu	Songtsen Gampo or Songzain Gambo (604-650) Tibetan emperor, founder of the Tubo 吐蕃[Tu3 bo1] dynasty
松赞干布陵	song	ling	the tomb of Tibetan king Songtsen Gampo or Songzain Gambo in Lhoka prefecture
松辽平原	song	yuan	Songliao Plain of northeast China including Songhua River 松花江 through the Liaoning Peninsula, also called the Northeast Plain 東北平原|东北平原[Dong1 bei3 Ping2 yuan2]
松阪猪	song	zhu	(Tw) Matsusaka pork – premium cut of pork, usually from the neck or jowl, noted for its fine marbling and tenderness, named by analogy with Japan's famous Matsusaka beef, not by origin
松阳县	song	xian	Songyang, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
松雀鹰	song	ying	(bird species of China) besra (Accipiter virgatus)
松露猪	song	zhu	truffle hog
松鹤遐龄	song	ling	longevity
板上钉钉	ban	ding	that clinches it; that's final; no two ways about it
板儿爷	ban	ye	(coll.) pedicab driver
板块构造	ban	zao	plate tectonics
板块理论	ban	lun	plate tectonics
板式塔	ban	ta	distillation tower; bubble tower; plate column
板擦儿	ban	r	blackboard or whiteboard eraser
板条箱	ban	xiang	crate
板板六十四	ban	si	unaccommodating; rigid
板桥市	ban	shi	Banqiao or Panchiao city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
板梁桥	ban	qiao	plate girder bridge
板羽球	ban	qiu	battledore and shuttlecock; shuttlecock
板蓝根	ban	gen	indigo woad root; root of Isatis tinctoria (used in TCM)
板门店	ban	dian	Panmunjeom, the Joint Security Area in the Korean demilitarized zone
极乐世界	ji	jie	paradise (mainly Buddhist); Elysium; (Budd.) Sukhavati
极北朱顶雀	ji	que	(bird species of China) Arctic redpoll (Acanthis hornemanni)
极北柳莺	ji	ying	(bird species of China) Arctic warbler (Phylloscopus borealis)
极右分子	ji	zi	extreme right-winger
极右翼	ji	yi	extreme right (politics)
极坐标	ji	biao	(math.) polar coordinates
极坐标系	ji	xi	(math.) polar coordinate system
极大值	ji	zhi	maximum value
极少数	ji	shu	extremely few; a small minority
极有可能	ji	neng	extremely possible; probable
极权主义	ji	yi	totalitarianism
极深研几	ji	ji	deep and detailed investigation (idiom)
极盛时期	ji	qi	most flourishing period; Golden Age
极目远望	ji	wang	as far as the eye can see
极短篇小说	ji	shuo	flash fiction
极端主义	ji	yi	extremism
极端之恶	ji	e	(philosophy) radical evil
极端分子	ji	zi	extremist
极简主义	ji	yi	minimalism
极细小	ji	xiao	extremely small; infinitesimal
极限运动	ji	dong	extreme sport
构想图	gou	tu	notional diagram (i.e. made-up picture or artist's impression for news story)
构词学	gou	xue	morphology (linguistics)
构造运动	gou	dong	tectonic movement; movement of earth's crust
枇杷膏	pi	gao	Pei Pa Koa, proprietary cough syrup made with traditional Chinese herbs
析毫剖厘	xi	li	to analyze in the finest detail
枕冷衾寒	zhen	han	cold pillow and lonely bed (idiom); fig. cold and solitary existence
枕头大战	zhen	zhan	pillow fight
枕头套	zhen	tao	pillow case
枕头箱	zhen	xiang	Chinese pillow box (used to keep valuables)
枕头蛋糕	zhen	gao	loaf cake
枕岩漱流	zhen	liu	see 枕石漱流[zhen3 shi2 shu4 liu2]
枕席儿	zhen	r	erhua form of 枕席[zhen3 xi2]
枕戈寝甲	zhen	jia	lit. to sleep on one's armor with a spear as a pillow (idiom); fig. to keep ready for battle at all times
枕戈待旦	zhen	dan	lit. to wait for dawn, one's head resting on a spear (idiom); fig. fully prepared and biding one's time before the battle
枕状熔岩	zhen	yan	(geology) pillow lava
枕石漱流	zhen	liu	to live a hermit's life (in seclusion); a frugal life (idiom)
枕边人	zhen	ren	the person who shares one's bed; partner; spouse
枕边故事	zhen	shi	bedtime story
枕边风	zhen	feng	pillow talk
林三趾鹑	lin	chun	(bird species of China) common buttonquail (Turnix sylvaticus)
林丰正	lin	zheng	Lin Fong-cheng (1940-), Taiwanese politician
林书豪	lin	hao	Jeremy Lin (1988-), Taiwanese-American professional basketball player (NBA)
林俊杰	lin	jie	JJ Lin (1981–), Singaporean pop star
林克平大学	lin	xue	Linköping University, Sweden
林八哥	lin	ge	(bird species of China) great myna (Acridotheres grandis)
林则徐	lin	xu	Lin Zexu or Lin Tse-hsu "Commissioner Lin" (1785-1850), Qing official whose anti-opium activities led to first Opium war with Britain 1840-1842
林口县	lin	xian	Linkou, a county in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
林可霉素	lin	su	(pharmacology) lincomycin
林吉特	lin	te	ringgit (monetary unit of Malaysia) (loanword)
林周县	lin	xian	Lhünzhub, a county in Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
林夜鹰	lin	ying	(bird species of China) savanna nightjar (Caprimulgus affinis)
林子大了什么鸟都有	lin	you	it takes all sorts (to make a world) (idiom)
林家翘	lin	qiao	Lin Chia-Chiao (1916-2013), Chinese-American physicist, astronomer and applied mathematician
林岭雀	lin	que	(bird species of China) plain mountain finch (Leucosticte nemoricola)
林州市	lin	shi	Linzhou, a county-level city in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
林德布拉德	lin	de	Lindeblatt (name)
林心如	lin	ru	Ruby Lin (1976-), Taiwanese actress and pop singer
林忆莲	lin	lian	Sandy Lam (1966-), Hong Kong pop singer
林志玲	lin	ling	Lin Chi-ling (1974-), Taiwanese model and actress
林怀民	lin	min	Lin Hwai-Min (1947-), Taiwanese choreographer and dancer
林来疯	lin	feng	Linsanity; craze over Jeremy Lin 林書豪|林书豪[Lin2 Shu1 hao2]
林林总总	lin	zong	in great abundance; numerous
林柳莺	lin	ying	(bird species of China) wood warbler (Phylloscopus sibilatrix)
林沙锥	lin	zhui	(bird species of China) wood snipe (Gallinago nemoricola)
林琴南	lin	nan	courtesy name of Lin Shu 林紓|林纾[Lin2 Shu1]
林甸县	lin	xian	Lindian, a county in Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
林肯郡	lin	jun	Lincolnshire (English county)
林芝市	lin	shi	Nyingchi, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
林荫大道	lin	dao	variant of 林陰大道|林阴大道[lin2 yin1 da4 dao4]
林荫路	lin	lu	see 林蔭道|林荫道[lin2 yin1 dao4]
林荫道	lin	dao	boulevard; avenue
林西县	lin	xian	Linxi, a county in Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
林语堂	lin	tang	Lin Yutang (1895-1976), Chinese writer, linguist and inventor
林阴大道	lin	dao	boulevard; tree-lined avenue; CL:條|条[tiao2]
林阴路	lin	lu	see 林蔭道|林荫道[lin2 yin4 dao4]
林阴道	lin	dao	see 林蔭道|林荫道[lin2 yin4 dao4]
林雕鸮	lin	xiao	(bird species of China) spot-bellied eagle-owl (Ketupa nipalensis)
林雪平	lin	ping	Linköping, city in southeast Sweden
林青霞	lin	xia	Brigitte Lin (1954-), Taiwanese actress
林黛玉	lin	yu	Lin Daiyu, female character in The Dream of Red Mansions, cousin and thwarted lover of Jia Baoyu 賈寶玉|贾宝玉
果不其然	guo	ran	(idiom) just as expected
果仁儿	guo	r	fruit kernel
果仁密饼	guo	bing	baklava
果倍爽	guo	shuang	Capri-Sun, juice drink brand
果如所料	guo	liao	just as expected
果子冻	guo	dong	jelly
果子狸	guo	li	masked palm civet (Paguma larvata)
果子酱	guo	jiang	marmalade; jellied fruit
果子露	guo	lu	fruit drink
果实散播	guo	bo	fruit dispersal
果实累累	guo	lei	lit. prodigious abundance of fruit (idiom); fruit hangs heavy on the bough; fig. countless accomplishments
果戈里	guo	li	Nikolai Gogol (1809-1852), Russian author and dramatist
果料儿	guo	r	fruit ingredients (for cakes and desserts)
果汁机	guo	ji	blender (device); juicer
果洛州	guo	zhou	see 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
果洛藏族自治州	guo	zhou	Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
果葡糖浆	guo	jiang	glucose-fructose syrup
果馅饼	guo	bing	tart
枝江市	zhi	shi	Zhijiang, a county-level city in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
枝繁叶茂	zhi	mao	(of plants) to grow luxuriantly; (fig.) (of a family or business etc) to prosper; to flourish
枝节横生	zhi	sheng	side issues keep arising (idiom)
枞阳县	zong	xian	Zongyang, a county in Tongling City 銅陵市|铜陵市[Tong2 ling2 Shi4], Anhui
枢密院	shu	yuan	privy council
枢机主教	shu	jiao	cardinal (of the Catholic Church)
枣庄市	zao	shi	Zaozhuang, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
枣强县	zao	xian	Zaoqiang, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
枣疯病	zao	bing	jujube witches' broom (infectious plant disease of jujube trees caused by Candidatus Phytoplasma ziziphi)
枣阳市	zao	shi	Zaoyang, a county-level city in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
枪乌贼	qiang	zei	squid
枪击案	qiang	an	a shooting
枪打出头鸟	qiang	niao	the shot hits the bird that pokes its head out (idiom); nonconformity gets punished
枪把儿	qiang	r	butt of a gun
枪杆儿	qiang	r	gun barrel
枪杆子	qiang	zi	gun barrel
枪林箭雨	qiang	yu	forest of spear, rain of arrows
枪榴弹	qiang	dan	rifle grenade
枪灰色	qiang	se	gunmetal gray
枫叶国	feng	guo	(slang) Canada
枫叶鼠	feng	shu	(coll.) winter white dwarf hamster (Phodopus sungorus)
枫香木	feng	mu	Chinese sweetgum (Liquidambar formosana)
枫香树	feng	shu	Chinese sweetgum (Liquidambar formosana)
枭首示众	xiao	zhong	to behead sb and display the head in public
枯叶剂	ku	ji	Agent Orange (herbicide)
枯木逢春	ku	chun	lit. the spring comes upon a withered tree (idiom); fig. to get a new lease on life; to be revived
枯水期	ku	qi	dry season; low-water period
枯燥无味	ku	wei	tedious; dreary
枯草杆菌	ku	jun	bacillus subtilis
枯草热	ku	re	hay fever
枯萎病	ku	bing	blight
架上绘画	jia	hua	easel painting
架不住	jia	zhu	(coll.) unable to withstand; cannot bear; can't stand it
架二郎腿	jia	tui	to stick one leg over the other (when sitting)
架子猪	jia	zhu	feeder pig
架子车	jia	che	two-wheeled handcart
架子鼓	jia	gu	drum kit
架构师	jia	shi	(computing) architect
架空历史	jia	shi	alternate history; counterfactual history (genre of fiction)
架空索道	jia	dao	aerial ropeway; cable car
枸杞子	gou	zi	goji berry
柏举之战	bai	zhan	Battle of Baiju (506 BC), in which Wu 吳|吴[Wu2] scored a crushing victory over Chu 楚[Chu3]
柏乡县	bai	xian	Baixiang, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
柏克莱	bai	lai	Berkeley (name); George Berkeley (1685-1753), Bishop of Cloyne, famous British philosopher; Berkeley, university city in the San Francisco bay area, California
柏克郡	bo	jun	Berkshire (English county)
柏孜克里克千佛洞	bo	dong	the Bezeklik Thousand Buddha Caves, in the Turpan Basin, Xinjiang
柏崎刈羽	bai	yu	Kashiwasaki Kariwa, site of Japanese nuclear power plant near Niigata 新潟
柏崎市	bai	shi	Kashiwazaki city, Japan
柏拉图	bo	tu	Plato (c. 427 – c. 347 BC), Greek philosopher
柏拉图哲学	bo	xue	Platonism
柏林围墙	bo	qiang	Berlin Wall
柏林墙	bo	qiang	Berlin Wall
柏林工业大学	bo	xue	Technical University of Berlin, Germany (Technische Universitaet zu Berlin)
柏柏尔	bo	er	Berber people of North Africa
柏油路	bai	lu	tarred road; asphalt road
柏油马路	bai	lu	tarred road; asphalt road
柏节松操	bai	cao	chaste widowhood
柏蒂切利	bo	li	Sandro Botticelli (1445-1510) Italian painter of the Florentine school
柏辽兹	bo	zi	Hector Berlioz (1803-1869), French romantic composer, author of Symphonie Fantastique
柏青哥	bo	ge	pachinko (loanword) (Tw)
柑橘酱	gan	jiang	marmalade
染发剂	ran	ji	hair dye; rinse; tint
染指于鼎	ran	ding	lit. dip one's finger in the tripod (idiom); fig. to get one's finger in the pie; to get a share of the action
染指垂涎	ran	xian	lit. dirty finger, mouth watering (idiom); fig. greedy to seize sth
染色体	ran	ti	chromosome
染色体倍性	ran	xing	ploidy (number of homologous chromosomes)
染色质	ran	zhi	chromatin
染风习俗	ran	su	bad habits; to get into bad habits through long custom
柔佛州	rou	zhou	Johor (state in Malaysia)
柔佛海峡	rou	xia	Straits of Johor (between Malaysia and Singapore)
柔情似水	rou	shui	tender and soft as water; deeply attached to sb
柔情侠骨	rou	gu	gentle feelings and chivalrous disposition (idiom)
柔情脉脉	rou	mo	full of tender feelings (idiom); tender-hearted
柔肠寸断	rou	duan	lit. to feel as if one's intestines have been cut short; broken-hearted (idiom)
柔肤水	rou	shui	skin toner
柔能克刚	rou	gang	lit. the soft can subdue the hard
柔荑花序	rou	xu	catkin (botany)
柔身术	rou	shu	contortion (performance art)
柔软剂	rou	ji	fabric softener
柔软精	rou	jing	fabric softener (Tw)
柔顺剂	rou	ji	fabric softener
柘城县	zhe	xian	Zhecheng, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
柘榴石	zhe	shi	garnet
柘荣县	zhe	xian	Zherong, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
柜员机	gui	ji	ATM
柞水县	zha	xian	Zhashui, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
柞蚕丝	zuo	si	tussah silk
柠檬水	ning	shui	lemonade
柠檬汁	ning	zhi	lemon juice
柠檬烯	ning	xi	(chemistry) limonene
柠檬片	ning	pian	slice of lemon
柠檬茶	ning	cha	lemon tea
柠檬草	ning	cao	lemongrass (Cymbopogon citratus)
柠檬酸	ning	suan	citric acid
柠檬酸循环	ning	huan	citric acid cycle; Krebs cycle; tricarboxylic acid cycle
柠檬鸡	ning	ji	lemon chicken
查克拉	cha	la	(loanword) chakra
查克瑞	cha	rui	(loanword) chakra
查加斯病	cha	bing	Chagas disease; American trypanosomiasis
查字法	cha	fa	look-up method for Chinese characters
查尔斯	cha	si	Charles
查尔斯顿	cha	dun	Charleston
查戈斯群岛	cha	dao	Chagos Archipelago, coral archipelago in tropical Indian Ocean, with Diego Garcia 迪戈·加西亞島|迪戈·加西亚岛[Di2 ge1 · Jia1 xi1 ya4 Dao3] as largest island
查普曼	cha	man	Chapman (name)
查水表	cha	biao	(Internet slang) (of the police) to ask to be let in on the pretext of checking the water meter; to barge into people's home on false pretences
查理周刊	cha	kan	Charlie Hebdo (French magazine)
查理大帝	cha	di	Charlemagne (c. 747-c. 814), King of the Franks, Holy Roman Emperor from 800
查票员	cha	yuan	ticket inspector
查韦斯	cha	si	Chavez, Spanish name
柬吴哥王朝	jian	chao	Ankor Dynasty of Cambodia, 802-1431
柬埔寨	jian	zhai	Cambodia
柯劭忞	ke	min	Ke Shaomin (1850-1933), scholar, author of New History of the Yuan Dynasty 新元史[Xin1 Yuan2 shi3]
柯坪县	ke	xian	Kalpin, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
柯城区	ke	qu	Kecheng, a district of Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
柯夫塔	ke	ta	kofta
柯尔克孜	ke	zi	Kyrgyz ethnic group
柯尔克孜族	ke	zu	Kyrgyz ethnic group
柯尔克孜语	ke	yu	Kyrghiz language
柯尼斯堡	ke	bao	Königsberg, Baltic port city, capital of East Prussia (until WWII)
柯式印刷	ke	shua	offset printing
柯文哲	ke	zhe	Ko Wen-je (1959-), Taiwanese independent politician, Mayor of Taipei City from 2014
柯林斯	ke	si	Collins (name)
柯林顿	ke	dun	(Tw) Clinton (name); Bill Clinton (1946-), US Democratic politician, president 1993-2001; Hillary Rodham Clinton (1947-), US Democratic politician
柯桥区	ke	qu	Keqiao, a district of Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
柯棣华	ke	hua	Dwarkanath Kotnis (1910-1942), one of five Indian doctors sent to China to provide medical assistance during the Second Sino-Japanese War
柯沙奇病毒	ke	du	Coxsackievirus
柯萨奇病毒	ke	du	Coxsachie A intestinal virus
柯那克里	ke	li	Conakry, capital of Guinea (Tw)
柯里化	ke	hua	(computing) currying
柱型图	zhu	tu	bar graph; bar diagram
柱状图	zhu	tu	bar chart
柳丁氨醇	liu	chun	albuterol (also known as proventil, salbutamol, ventolin), an asthma drug
柳公权	liu	quan	Liu Gongquan (778-865), Tang calligrapher
柳北区	liu	qu	Liubei, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳南区	liu	qu	Liunan, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳叶刀	liu	dao	lancet (surgeon's knife)
柳叶眉	liu	mei	see 柳眉[liu3 mei2]
柳啼花怨	liu	yuan	desolate
柳城县	liu	xian	Liucheng, a county in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳子戏	liu	xi	Shandong opera
柳宗元	liu	yuan	Liu Zongyuan (773-819), Tang essayist and poet, advocate of the classical writing 古文運動|古文运动 and neoclassical 復古|复古 movements
柳州市	liu	shi	Liuzhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
柳暗花明	liu	ming	lit. the willow trees make the shade, the flowers give the light (idiom); at one's darkest hour, a glimmer of hope; light at the end of the tunnel
柳条沟事件	liu	jian	see 柳條湖事件|柳条湖事件[Liu3 tiao2 Hu2 Shi4 jian4]
柳条湖事件	liu	jian	the Mukden or Manchurian Railway Incident of 18th September 1931 used by the Japanese as a pretext to annex Manchuria; also known as 9-18 incident 九一八事變|九一八事变[Jiu3 Yi1 ba1 Shi4 bian4]
柳条边	liu	bian	Willow palisade across Liaoning, 17th century barrier
柳松菇	liu	gu	poplar mushroom (Cyclocybe aegerita)
柳林县	liu	xian	Liulin, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
柳橙汁	liu	zhi	orange juice; CL:瓶[ping2],杯[bei1],罐[guan4],盒[he2]; see also 橙汁[cheng2 zhi1]
柳毅传	liu	zhuan	story of Liu Yi, Tang fantasy fiction by Li Chaowei 李朝威, popular with dramatist of subsequent dynasties
柳江区	liu	qu	Liujiang, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
柳河县	liu	xian	Liuhe, a county in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
柳烟花雾	liu	wu	lit. willow scent and mist of blossom (idiom); scene full of the delights of spring
柳绿花红	liu	hong	(lit.) green willows and red flowers (idiom); (fig.) all the colors of spring
柳陌花衢	liu	qu	brothel
柳雷鸟	liu	niao	(bird species of China) willow ptarmigan (Lagopus lagopus)
柴可夫斯基	chai	ji	Tchaikovsky (1840-1893), Russian composer
柴桑区	chai	qu	Chaisang, a district of Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
柴油发动机	chai	ji	diesel engine
柴油机	chai	ji	diesel engine
柴电机车	chai	che	diesel-electric locomotive
柴禾妞	chai	niu	(dialect) country girl; unsophisticated girl
柴科夫斯基	chai	ji	Piotr Ilyich Tchaikowsky (1840-1893), Russian composer, composer of 6 symphonies and the opera Eugene Onegin
柴米油盐	chai	yan	(lit.) firewood, rice, oil and salt (idiom); (fig.) life's daily necessities
柴米油盐酱醋茶	chai	cha	(lit.) firewood, rice, oil, salt, soy sauce, vinegar and tea; (fig.) life's daily necessities
柴达木	chai	mu	Tsaidam or Qaidam basin (Mongolian: salt marsh), depression northeast of the Plateau of Tibet, located between the Qilian Shan and the Kunlun Shan at the northern margin of the Tibetan Plateau.
柴达木盆地	chai	di	Tsaidam or Qaidam basin (Mongolian: salt marsh), depression northeast of the Plateau of Tibet, located between the Qilian Shan and the Kunlun Shan at the northern margin of the Tibetan Plateau.
柴门小户	chai	hu	woodcutter's cottage (idiom); poor person's hovel; fig. my humble house
柴鱼片	chai	pian	katsuobushi or dried bonito flakes (paper-thin shavings of preserved skipjack tuna)
柿子挑软的捏	shi	nie	lit. it's the soft persimmons that people choose to squeeze (idiom); fig. it's the weak (i.e. 軟柿子|软柿子[ruan3 shi4 zi5]) who get picked on; bullies pick soft targets
柿子椒	shi	jiao	bell pepper, aka sweet pepper
栀子花	zhi	hua	cape jasmine (Gardenia jasminoides)
标准像	biao	xiang	official portrait
标准化	biao	hua	standardization
标准尺寸	biao	cun	gauge
标准差	biao	cha	(statistics) standard deviation
标准时	biao	shi	standard time
标准普尔	biao	er	S&P (formerly Standard & Poor's), financial services company
标准杆	biao	gan	par (golf)
标准模型	biao	xing	Standard Model (of particle physics)
标准状况	biao	kuang	standard conditions for temperature and pressure
标准状态	biao	tai	standard conditions for temperature and pressure
标准组织	biao	zhi	standards organization; standards body
标准规格	biao	ge	standard; norm
标准语	biao	yu	standard language
标准间	biao	jian	standard (hotel) room; two-person room of standard size and amenities; abbr. to 標間|标间[biao1 jian1]
标准音	biao	yin	standard pronunciation; standard tone (e.g. A = 440 Hz)
标志性	biao	xing	iconic
标新取异	biao	yi	to start on sth new and different (idiom); to display originality
标新立异	biao	yi	to make a show of being original or unconventional (idiom)
标新竞异	biao	yi	to start on sth new and different (idiom); to display originality
标新领异	biao	yi	to bring in the new (idiom); new directions, different creation
标本虫	biao	chong	spider beetle
标点符号	biao	hao	punctuation; a punctuation mark
标签页	biao	ye	tab (of a browser window)
标语牌	biao	pai	placard
标音法	biao	fa	phonetic transcription; system of representing spoken sounds
标题党	biao	dang	"sensational headline writers", people who write misleading titles in order to generate clicks from Internet users; clickbait
标题新闻	biao	wen	headline news; title story
标题栏	biao	lan	title bar (of a window) (computing)
标题语	biao	yu	title word; entry (in dictionary)
栈地址	zhan	zhi	stack address (computing)
栈存储器	zhan	qi	stack memory (computing)
栈山航海	zhan	hai	to have a long and hard journey (idiom)
栈桥式码头	zhan	tou	jetty; pier
栉孔扇贝	zhi	bei	Farrer's scallop (Chlamys farreri), aka Chinese scallop
栉水母	zhi	mu	comb jellies (Ctenophora)
栉风沐雨	zhi	yu	lit. to comb one's hair in the wind and wash it in the rain (idiom); fig. to work in the open regardless of the weather
树上开花	shu	hua	to deck the tree with false blossoms; to make something of no value appear valuable (idiom)
树上熟	shu	shu	tree-ripe
树倒猢狲散	shu	san	When the tree topples the monkeys scatter. (idiom); fig. an opportunist abandons an unfavorable cause; Rats leave a sinking ship.
树化玉	shu	yu	wood jade (type of petrified wood)
树大招风	shu	feng	lit. a tall tree attracts the wind (idiom); fig. a famous or rich person attracts criticism
树挪死人挪活	shu	huo	lit. if moved to a new location, a tree will die, but a person will live (idiom); fig. human beings, unlike trees, thrive on change
树林市	shu	shi	Shulin city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
树枝状晶	shu	jing	(crystallography, metallurgy) dendritic crystal
树欲静而风不止	shu	zhi	lit. the trees long for peace but the wind will never cease (idiom); fig. the world changes, whether you want it or not
树状细胞	shu	bao	dendritic cell
树番茄	shu	qie	tamarillo
树碑立传	shu	zhuan	lit. to erect a stele and write a biography (idiom); to monumentalize; to glorify
树突状细胞	shu	bao	dendritic cell
树莓派	shu	pai	Raspberry Pi (computing)
树菠萝	shu	luo	jackfruit
树葡萄	shu	tao	jaboticaba; Brazilian grape tree
树袋熊	shu	xiong	koala
树高千丈叶落归根	shu	gen	fig. a tree may grow a thousand zhang high, but its leaves return to their roots (proverb); fig. everything has its ancestral home; in old age, an expatriate returns home
树高千丈落叶归根	shu	gen	see 樹高千丈，葉落歸根|树高千丈，叶落归根[shu4 gao1 qian1 zhang4 , ye4 luo4 gui1 gen1]
树麻雀	shu	que	(bird species of China) Eurasian tree sparrow (Passer montanus)
栓皮栎	shuan	li	Chinese cork oak (Quercus variabilis)
栖息地	qi	di	habitat
栖栖遑遑	xi	huang	(idiom) restless; unsettled
栖霞区	qi	qu	Qixia, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
栖霞市	qi	shi	Qixia, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
栗啄木鸟	li	niao	(bird species of China) rufous woodpecker (Micropternus brachyurus)
栗喉蜂虎	li	hu	(bird species of China) blue-tailed bee-eater (Merops philippinus)
栗喉鵙鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) black-eared shrike-babbler (Pteruthius melanotis)
栗头八色鸫	li	dong	(bird species of China) rusty-naped pitta (Hydrornis oatesi)
栗头地莺	li	ying	(bird species of China) chestnut-headed tesia (Cettia castaneocoronata)
栗头蜂虎	li	hu	(bird species of China) chestnut-headed bee-eater (Merops leschenaulti)
栗头雀鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-winged fulvetta (Schoeniparus castaneceps)
栗头鹟莺	li	ying	(bird species of China) chestnut-crowned warbler (Phylloscopus castaniceps)
栗斑杜鹃	li	juan	(bird species of China) banded bay cuckoo (Cacomantis sonneratii)
栗斑腹鹀	li	wu	(bird species of China) Jankowski's bunting (Emberiza jankowskii)
栗树鸭	li	ya	(bird species of China) lesser whistling duck (Dendrocygna javanica)
栗耳凤鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) striated yuhina (Staphida castaniceps)
栗耳短脚鹎	li	bei	(bird species of China) brown-eared bulbul (Hypsipetes amaurotis)
栗耳鹀	li	wu	(bird species of China) chestnut-eared bunting (Emberiza fucata)
栗背伯劳	li	lao	(bird species of China) Burmese shrike (Lanius collurioides)
栗背奇鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-backed sibia (Leioptila annectens)
栗背岩鹨	li	liu	(bird species of China) maroon-backed accentor (Prunella immaculata)
栗背短翅鸫	li	dong	(bird species of China) Gould's shortwing (Heteroxenicus stellatus)
栗背短脚鹎	li	bei	(bird species of China) chestnut bulbul (Hemixos castanonotus)
栗腹文鸟	li	niao	(bird species of China) tricoloured munia (Lonchura malacca)
栗腹歌鸲	li	qu	(bird species of China) Indian blue robin (Larvivora brunnea)
栗腹矶鸫	li	dong	(bird species of China) chestnut-bellied rock thrush (Monticola rufiventris)
栗苇鳽	li	yan	(bird species of China) cinnamon bittern (Ixobrychus cinnamomeus)
栗颈噪鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-necked laughingthrush (Pterorhinus ruficollis)
栗颊噪鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-cheeked laughingthrush (Garrulax castanotis)
栗额鵙鹛	li	mei	(bird species of China) clicking shrike-babbler (Pteruthius intermedius)
校运会	xiao	hui	(school) field day; sports day
校验码	jiao	ma	check digit
栩栩如生	xu	sheng	vivid and lifelike (idiom); true to life; realistic
栩栩生辉	xu	hui	resplendent
株式会社	zhu	she	Japanese limited company; corporation; public company
株洲市	zhu	shi	Zhuzhou, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
样条函数	yang	shu	spline function (math.)
样板戏	yang	xi	model theater (operas and ballets produced during the Cultural Revolution)
样样通样样松	yang	song	jack of all trades, master of none
核不扩散	he	san	nuclear nonproliferation
核事件	he	jian	nuclear incident
核僵持	he	chi	nuclear equipoise; nuclear stalemate
核军备	he	bei	nuclear arms
核冬天	he	tian	nuclear winter
核出口控制	he	zhi	nuclear export control
核分裂	he	lie	nuclear fission
核动力	he	li	nuclear power
核动力航空母舰	he	jian	nuclear-powered aircraft carrier
核医学	he	xue	nuclear medicine
核原料	he	liao	nuclear material
核反击	he	ji	nuclear counter strike
核反应	he	ying	nuclear reaction
核反应堆	he	dui	nuclear reactor
核发电	he	dian	nuclear power generation
核发电厂	he	chang	nuclear power plant
核变形	he	xing	nuclear deformation
核合成	he	cheng	nucleosynthesis
核国家	he	jia	nuclear nations
核地雷	he	lei	nuclear land mine; nuclear mine
核均势	he	shi	nuclear parity
核大国	he	guo	a nuclear power (country)
核威慑	he	she	nuclear deterrence
核威慑力量	he	liang	nuclear deterrent
核威慑政策	he	ce	policy of nuclear intimidation
核子医学	he	xue	(Tw) nuclear medicine
核对峙	he	zhi	nuclear stalemate
核导弹	he	dan	nuclear missile
核小体	he	ti	nucleosome
核屏蔽	he	bi	nuclear shielding
核工业	he	ye	nuclear industry
核工程	he	cheng	nuclear engineering
核废物	he	wu	nuclear waste
核弹头	he	tou	nuclear reentry vehicle; nuclear warhead
核当量	he	liang	nuclear yield
核战斗部	he	bu	nuclear warhead
核扩散	he	san	nuclear proliferation
核技术	he	shu	nuclear technology
核推进	he	jin	nuclear propulsion
核桃仁	he	ren	walnut kernel
核模型	he	xing	nuclear model
核武器	he	qi	nuclear weapon
核武库	he	ku	nuclear arsenal
核潜艇	he	ting	nuclear submarine
核燃料	he	liao	nuclear fuel
核燃料后处理	he	li	nuclear fuel reprocessing
核爆炸	he	zha	nuclear explosion
核物理	he	li	nuclear physics
核电厂	he	chang	nuclear power plant
核电磁脉冲	he	chong	nuclear electro-magnetic pulse
核电站	he	zhan	nuclear power plant
核电荷数	he	shu	electric charge on nucleus; atomic number
核相互作用	he	yong	nuclear interaction
核碱基	he	ji	nucleobase
核磁共振	he	zhen	nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR)
核糖体	he	ti	ribosome
核糖核酸	he	suan	ribonucleic acid (RNA)
核结构	he	gou	nuclear structure
核聚变	he	bian	nuclear fusion
核能源	he	yuan	nuclear power
核自旋	he	xuan	nuclear spin
核苷酸	he	suan	nucleotide
核裁军	he	jun	nuclear disarmament
核裂变	he	bian	atomic fission; nuclear fission; fission
核装置	he	zhi	nuclear device
核设施	he	shi	nuclear facility; nuclear installation
核试爆	he	bao	nuclear test
核试验	he	yan	nuclear test
核试验场	he	chang	nuclear test site
核试验堆	he	dui	nuclear test reactor
核谈判	he	pan	nuclear negotiations
核转变	he	bian	nuclear transformation; nuclear transmutation
核轰炸	he	zha	nuclear bomb
核轰炸机	he	ji	nuclear bomber (aircraft)
核辐射	he	she	nuclear radiation
核连锁反应	he	ying	nuclear chain reaction
核酮糖	he	tang	ribulose (type of sugar)
核门槛	he	jian	nuclear threshold
核问题	he	ti	the nuclear problem
核防御	he	yu	nuclear defense
核黄素	he	su	riboflavin (vitamin B2)
根据地	gen	di	base of operations
根本法	gen	fa	fundamental law; body of basic laws
根汁汽水	gen	shui	root beer
根河市	gen	shi	Genhe, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
根深叶茂	gen	mao	deep roots and vigorous foliage (idiom); (fig.) well established and growing strongly
根深蒂固	gen	gu	deep-rooted (problem etc)
根状茎	gen	jing	rhizome (biol.); root stock
根瘤菌	gen	jun	rhizobia
根瘤菌属	gen	shu	genus Rhizobium
根目录	gen	lu	(computing) root directory
根管治疗	gen	liao	root canal therapy (dentistry)
根西岛	gen	dao	Guernsey (Channel Islands)
格但斯克	ge	ke	Gdansk, city on Baltic in north Poland
格兰氏阴性	ge	xing	Gram negative (of bacteria); also written 革蘭氏陰性|革兰氏阴性
格兰特	ge	te	Grant (name)
格兰芬多	ge	duo	Gryffindor (Harry Potter)
格兰菜	ge	cai	see 芥藍|芥蓝[gai4 lan2]
格列高利历	ge	li	Gregorian calendar
格勒诺布尔	ge	er	Grenoble (French town)
格子呢	ge	ni	checked woolen fabric; plaid
格子棉布	ge	bu	gingham
格子花呢	ge	ni	tartan; plaid
格子间	ge	jian	cubicle
格尔木	ge	mu	see 格爾木市|格尔木市[Ge2 er3 mu4 Shi4]
格尔木市	ge	shi	Golmud, a county-level city in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
格式化	ge	hua	(computing) to format
格式塔	ge	ta	(loanword) gestalt
格式塔疗法	ge	fa	Gestalt therapy; holistic therapy
格恩西岛	ge	dao	Guernsey (Channel Islands)
格拉斯哥	ge	ge	Glasgow, Scotland
格拉汉姆	ge	mu	Graham or Graeme (name)
格拉纳达	ge	da	Granada, Spain
格拉茨	ge	ci	Graz (city in Austria)
格杀勿论	ge	lun	(idiom) to kill on sight (without fear of prosecution)
格林多	ge	duo	Corinthians
格林奈尔大学	ge	xue	Grinnell College (private liberal arts college in Grinnell, Iowa, USA)
格林威治	ge	zhi	Greenwich
格林威治村	ge	cun	Greenwich
格林威治标准时间	ge	jian	(Tw) Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)
格林尼治	ge	zhi	Greenwich (former location of Greenwich observatory, at zero longitude); refers to Greenwich mean time
格林尼治本初子午线	ge	xian	the Greenwich meridian
格林尼治标准时间	ge	jian	Greenwich Mean Time (GMT)
格林斯班	ge	ban	Alan Greenspan (1926-), US economist
格林童话	ge	hua	Grimm's Fairy Tales
格林纳达	ge	da	Grenada
格格不入	ge	ru	(idiom) inharmonious; incompatible
格格笑	ge	xiao	giggle
格洛斯特	ge	te	Gloucester city in southwest England
格洛斯特郡	ge	jun	Gloucestershire county in southwest England
格洛纳斯	ge	si	GLONASS (Globalnaya Navigatsionaya Satelitnaya Sistema or Global Navigation Satellite System), the Russian equivalent of GPS
格涅沙	ge	sha	Ganesha (the elephant-headed God in Hinduism, son of Shiva and Parvati)
格物致知	ge	zhi	to study the underlying principle to acquire knowledge (idiom); pursuing knowledge to the end
格瑞那达	ge	da	Grenada, island country in the Caribbean Sea (Tw)
格瓦斯	ge	si	(loanword) kvass
格罗兹尼	ge	ni	Grozny, capital of Chechen Republic, Russia
格罗宁根	ge	gen	Groningen, province and city in the Netherlands
格莱美奖	ge	jiang	Grammy Award (US music industry award)
格萨尔	ge	er	King Gesar, hero of a Tibetan and Mongolian epic cycle
格里姆斯塔	ge	ta	Grimstad (city in Agder, Norway)
格里高利	ge	li	Gregory or Grigory (name)
格陵兰	ge	lan	Greenland
格陵兰岛	ge	dao	Greenland
格雷伯爵茶	ge	cha	Earl Grey tea
格雷氏解剖学	ge	xue	Gray's Anatomy (medical reference book)
格鲁吉亚	ge	ya	Georgia (country)
格鲁吉亚人	ge	ren	Georgian (person)
格鲁派	ge	pai	Gelugpa school of Tibetan Buddhism
栽种机	zai	ji	a mechanical planter (for rice, plants)
栽筋斗	zai	dou	to tumble; to fall head over heels; (fig.) to take a tumble
栽跟头	zai	tou	to fall head over heels; (fig.) to come a cropper
栾城区	luan	qu	Luancheng, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
栾川县	luan	xian	Luanchuan, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
桀贪骜诈	jie	zha	brutal, greedy, arrogant and deceitful (idiom)
桀骜不逊	jie	xun	variant of 桀驁不馴|桀骜不驯[jie2 ao4 bu4 xun4]
桀骜不顺	jie	shun	see 桀驁不馴|桀骜不驯[jie2 ao4 bu4 xun4]
桀骜不驯	jie	xun	arrogant and obstinate (idiom); unyielding
桁杨刀锯	hang	ju	lit. stocks and knives; fig. any punishment equipment; torture instrument
桂东县	gui	xian	Guidong, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
桂平市	gui	shi	Guiping, a county-level city in Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
桂木属	gui	shu	genus Artocarpus
桂林医学院	gui	yuan	Guilin Medical University
桂林市	gui	shi	Guilin, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
桂系军阀	gui	fa	Guangxi warlord faction, from 1911-1930
桂纶镁	gui	mei	Guey Lun-mei (1983-), Taiwanese actress
桂阳县	gui	xian	Guiyang, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
桃园三结义	tao	yi	Oath of the Peach Garden, sworn by Liu Bei 劉備|刘备[Liu2 Bei4], Zhang Fei 張飛|张飞[Zhang1 Fei1] and Guan Yu 關羽|关羽[Guan1 Yu3] at the start of the Romance of Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4]
桃园市	tao	shi	Taoyuan city in north Taiwan, capital of Taoyuan county
桃园结义	tao	yi	to make a pact of brotherhood (from “Romance of the Three Kingdoms” 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4]) (idiom)
桃城区	tao	qu	Taocheng, a district of Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
桃太郎	tao	lang	Momotaro or Peach Boy, the hero of a Japanese folk tale; (Tw) Japanese person
桃山区	tao	qu	Taoshan, a district of Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
桃江县	tao	xian	Taojiang, a county in Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
桃源县	tao	xian	Taoyuan, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
桃腮粉脸	tao	lian	rosy-cheeked (idiom)
桃色新闻	tao	wen	sex scandal
桃色案件	tao	jian	case involving sex scandal (law)
桃花心木	tao	mu	mahogany
桃花扇	tao	shan	The Peach Blossom Fan, historical play about the last days of the Ming dynasty by Kong Shangren 孔尚任[Kong3 Shang4 ren4]
桃花水母	tao	mu	freshwater jellyfish (Craspedacusta)
桃花汛	tao	xun	spring flood (at peach-blossom time)
桃花源	tao	yuan	the Peach Blossom Spring, a hidden land of peace and prosperity; utopia
桃花运	tao	yun	luck with the ladies; a romance; good luck
桃莉羊	tao	yang	(Tw) Dolly (1996-2003), female sheep, first mammal to be cloned from an adult somatic cell
桃金娘	tao	niang	rose myrtle (Rhodomyrtus tomentosa)
桃金娘科	tao	ke	Myrtaceae (family including myrtle, rosemary, oregano etc)
案例法	an	fa	case law
案兵束甲	an	jia	to rest weapons and loosen armor (idiom); to relax from fighting
案发现场	an	chang	crime scene
案甲休兵	an	bing	to put down weapon and let soldiers rest (idiom); to relax from fighting
桉叶油	an	you	eucalyptus oil
桌上型	zhuo	xing	desktop
桌上型电脑	zhuo	nao	desktop computer
桌椅板凳	zhuo	deng	chairs and tables; household furniture
桌面儿	zhuo	r	erhua variant of 桌面[zhuo1 mian4]
桌面儿上	zhuo	shang	on the table; fig. everything open and above board
桐乡市	tong	shi	Tongxiang, a county-level city in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
桐城市	tong	shi	Tongcheng, a county-level city in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
桐庐县	tong	xian	Tonglu, a county in Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
桐木偶	tong	ou	puppet burial object; wooden effigy buried to put a curse on sb
桐柏县	tong	xian	Tongbai, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
桐柏山	tong	shan	Tongbai mountain range, the watershed between Huai 淮河 and Han 漢江|汉江 rivers
桐梓县	tong	xian	Tongzi, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
桑内斯	sang	si	Sandnes (city in Rogaland, Norway)
桑地诺民族解放阵线	sang	xian	Sandinista National Liberation Front
桑坦德	sang	de	Santander, capital of Spanish autonomous region Cantabria 坎塔布里亞|坎塔布里亚[Kan3 ta3 bu4 li3 ya4]
桑塔纳	sang	na	Santana (name)
桑娇维塞	sang	sai	Sangiovese (grape type)
桑帕约	sang	yue	Sampaio (name); Jorge Sampaio (1939-), Portuguese lawyer and politician, president of Portugal 1996-2006; Sampaio, town in Brazil
桑德尔福德	sang	de	Sandefjord (city in Vestfold, Norway)
桑德拉	sang	la	Sandra (name)
桑德斯	sang	si	(surname) Sanders
桑托里尼岛	sang	dao	Santorini (volcanic island in the Aegean sea)
桑日县	sang	xian	Sangri, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
桑植县	sang	xian	Sangzhi, a county in Zhangjiajie City 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 Shi4], Hunan
桑珠孜	sang	zi	see 桑珠孜區|桑珠孜区[Sang1 zhu1 zi1 Qu1]
桑珠孜区	sang	qu	Samzhubzê, a district of Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
桑给巴尔	sang	er	Zanzibar
桑蚕丝	sang	si	silk (specifically, mulberry silk)
桑间濮上	sang	shang	Sangjian by the Pu River, a place in the ancient state of Wei known for wanton behavior; lovers' rendezvous
桓仁县	huan	xian	see 桓仁滿族自治縣|桓仁满族自治县[Huan2 ren2 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
桓仁满族自治县	huan	xian	Huanren Manchu Autonomous County, in Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
桓台县	huan	xian	Huantai, a county in Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
档案传输协定	dang	ding	File Transfer Protocol (FTP)
档案夹	dang	jia	file folder; portfolio
档案总管	dang	guan	(computing) file manager
档案盒	dang	he	archive box
档案袋	dang	dai	archive envelope; portfolio
档案馆	dang	guan	archive library
桥东区	qiao	qu	Qiaodong, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
桥头堡	qiao	bao	bridgehead (military); stronghold serving as a base for advancing further into enemy territory; bridge tower (ornamental structure at either end of a bridge)
桥式整流器	qiao	qi	(electricity) bridge rectifier
桥接器	qiao	qi	bridge (networking)
桥本龙太郎	qiao	lang	HASHIMOTO Ryūtarō (1937-2006), Japanese politician, prime minister 1996-1998
桥西区	qiao	qu	Qiaoxi, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei; Qiaoxi, a district of Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
桦南县	hua	xian	Huanan, a county in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
桦川县	hua	xian	Huachuan, a county in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
桦木科	hua	ke	Betulaceae (broadleaf tree family including birch and alder)
桦甸市	hua	shi	Huadian, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
桩构栈道	zhuang	dao	pile trestle
桩桩件件	zhuang	jian	each and every one
桴鼓相应	fu	ying	lit. the hammer fits the drum (idiom); appropriate relation between the different parts; closely interrelated
桶装水	tong	shui	18.9 liter bottled water (5 gallons)
梁上君子	liang	zi	lit. the gentleman on the roof beam; fig. a thief
梁启超	liang	chao	Liang Qichao (1873-1929), influential journalist and a leader of the failed reform movement of 1898
梁唐晋汉周书	liang	shu	another name for History of the Five Dynasties between Tang and Song 舊五代史|旧五代史[Jiu4 Wu3 dai4 shi3]
梁园区	liang	qu	Liangyuan, a district of Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
梁子湖	liang	hu	see 梁子湖區|梁子湖区[Liang2 zi5 hu2 Qu1]
梁子湖区	liang	qu	Liangzihu, a district of Ezhou City 鄂州市[E4 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
梁山伯与祝英台	liang	tai	The Butterfly Lovers, Chinese folktale of the tragic love between Liang Shanbo and Zhu Yingtai
梁山县	liang	xian	Liangshan, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
梁山好汉	liang	han	the heroes of Liangshan Marsh (in the novel "Water Margin" 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4])
梁山市	liang	shi	Liangshan city in Shandong
梁平区	liang	qu	Liangping, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
梁振英	liang	ying	Leung Chun-ying (1954-), 3rd Chief Executive of Hong Kong
梁河县	liang	xian	Lianghe, a county in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
梁溪区	liang	qu	Liangxi, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
梁漱溟	liang	ming	Liang Shuming (1893-1988), modern philosopher and teacher in the neo-Confucian tradition
梁辰鱼	liang	yu	Liang Chenyu (1521-1594), Ming dramatist of the Kunshan opera school
梁静茹	liang	ru	Fish Leong (1978–), Malaysian pop singer
梅兰芳	mei	fang	Mei Lanfang (1894-1961), famous master of Beijing opera, specialist in female roles
梅县区	mei	qu	Meixian, a district of Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
梅州市	mei	shi	Meizhou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
梅干菜	mei	cai	salt-pickled sun-dried cabbage (or potherb mustard etc)
梅德韦杰夫	mei	fu	Medvedyev (name); Dmitry Anatolyevich Medvedev (1965-), Russian lawyer and politician, president of Russian Federation from 2008
梅斯梅尔	mei	er	Mesmer (name); Franz Anton Mesmer (1734-1815), Austrian doctor who introduced hypnosis
梅核气	mei	qi	(TCM) plum-pit qi, a feeling of a lump in the throat (globus pharyngis) or of stagnant phlegm
梅森素数	mei	shu	Mersenne prime number (math.)
梅氏腺	mei	xian	Mehlis gland
梅江区	mei	qu	Meijiang, a district of Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
梅河口	mei	kou	see 梅河口市[Mei2 he2 kou3 Shi4]
梅河口市	mei	shi	Meihekou, a county-level city in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
梅纳德	mei	de	Maynard (name)
梅花拳	mei	quan	Meihua Quan - "Plum Blossom Fist" (Chinese Martial Art)
梅花鹿	mei	lu	sika deer
梅萨林	mei	lin	muslin or mousseline silk fabric
梅西叶	mei	ye	Charles Messier (1730-1817), French astronomer who catalogued nebulas and galaxies
梅西叶星表	mei	biao	Messier catalog of nebulae and clusters (1784)
梅西耶	mei	ye	Charles Messier (1730-1817), French astronomer who catalogued nebulas and galaxies
梅西耶星表	mei	biao	Messier catalog of nebulae and clusters (1784)
梅里斯	mei	si	see 梅里斯達斡爾族區|梅里斯达斡尔族区[Mei2 li3 si1 Da2 wo4 er3 zu2 Qu1]
梅里斯区	mei	qu	Meilisi Daur district of Qiqihar city 齊齊哈爾|齐齐哈尔[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3], Heilongjiang
梅里斯达斡尔族区	mei	qu	Meilisi Daur District, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
梅里美	mei	mei	Prosper Mérimée (1803-1870), French scholar and writer, author of novel Carmen on which Bizet based his opera
梅里雪山	mei	shan	Meili Snow Mountains, with peaks up to 6000 m., in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
梆子腔	bang	qiang	a general term for local operas in Shanxi, Shaanxi, Henan, Hebei, Shandong etc; the music of such operas
梓潼县	zi	xian	Zitong, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
梦中情人	meng	ren	dream guy or girl; ideal romantic partner
梦寐以求	meng	qiu	(lit.) to yearn for sth even in one's dreams (idiom); (fig.) to deeply long for; to covet
梦幻泡影	meng	ying	(Buddhism) illusion; pipe dream
梦想家	meng	jia	dreamer; visionary
梦游症	meng	zheng	somnambulism; sleepwalking
梦溪笔谈	meng	tan	Dream Pool Essays by Shen Kuo 沈括[Shen3 Kuo4], book on various fields of knowledge, the first to describe the magnetic needle compass
梦行症	meng	zheng	somnambulism; sleepwalking
梧州市	wu	shi	Wuzhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
梧桐科	wu	ke	Sterculiaceae, family of Malvale trees incl. Cacao, Cola and Firmiana
梨俱吠陀	li	tuo	Rigveda, Indian religious poem
梨园子弟	li	di	Chinese opera performers
梨树区	li	qu	Lishu, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
梨树县	li	xian	Lishu, a county in Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin
梨花带雨	li	yu	lit. like raindrops on a pear blossom (idiom); fig. tear-stained face of a beauty
梭子鱼	suo	yu	barracuda
梯也尔	ti	er	Adolphe Thiers
梯度回波	ti	bo	gradient echo
梯式配股	ti	gu	laddering (of stock sales)
梯恩梯	ti	ti	TNT (trinitrotoluene) (loanword)
梯恩梯当量	ti	liang	TNT equivalent
梯次队形	ti	xing	echelon formation (military)
梯氏鸫	ti	dong	(bird species of China) Tickell's thrush (Turdus unicolor)
梳乎厘	shu	li	(HK) (loanword) soufflé
梳妆台	shu	tai	dressing table
梳妆室	shu	shi	boudoir; lady's dressing room
梳芙厘	shu	li	soufflé (loanword)
梵克雅宝	fan	bao	Van Cleef & Arpels (French luxury jewelry company)
梵册贝叶	fan	ye	Sanskrit on Talipot palm leaves (idiom); Buddhist scripture
梵哑铃	fan	ling	violin (loanword)
梵婀玲	fan	ling	(loanword) (archaic) violin
梵帝冈	fan	gang	variant of 梵蒂岡|梵蒂冈[Fan4 di4 gang1]
梵汉对音	fan	yin	Sanskrit-Chinese transliteration
梵蒂冈	fan	gang	the Vatican
梵蒂冈城	fan	cheng	Vatican City, capital of Holy See
梵谛冈	fan	gang	variant of 梵蒂岡|梵蒂冈[Fan4 di4 gang1]
检孕棒	jian	bang	home pregnancy test kit
检字法	jian	fa	indexing system for Chinese characters in a dictionary
检字表	jian	biao	character index; table for looking up characters (in a dictionary or reference work)
检察官	jian	guan	public prosecutor; public procurator (judicial officer whose job may involve both criminal investigation and public prosecution)
检察总长	jian	zhang	(Tw) Prosecutor-General
检察院	jian	yuan	prosecutor's office; procuratorate
检控官	jian	guan	prosecutor; procurator
检控方	jian	fang	the prosecuting side (in a trial); the prosecution
检查员	jian	yuan	inspector
检查哨	jian	shao	inspection post; checkpoint
检查站	jian	zhan	checkpoint
检毒盒	jian	he	detection kit
检毒箱	jian	xiang	detection kit
检测仪	jian	yi	sensor; detector
检测器	jian	qi	detector
检眼镜	jian	jing	ophthalmoscope; funduscope
检警调	jian	diao	(Tw) public prosecutors, the police, and the Investigation Bureau (abbr. for 檢察官、警察、調查局|检察官、警察、调查局[jian3 cha2 guan1 , jing3 cha2 , diao4 cha2 ju2])
检验医学	jian	xue	laboratory medicine
棉兰老岛	mian	dao	Mindanao (island in the Philippines)
棉花棒	mian	bang	cotton swab; cotton bud
棉花糖	mian	tang	cotton candy; candyfloss; marshmallow
棉铃虫	mian	chong	cotton bollworm (Helicoverpa armigera)
棋格状	qi	zhuang	checkered pattern; chessboard
棋逢对手	qi	shou	to be evenly matched; to meet one's match
棋逢敌手	qi	shou	see 棋逢對手|棋逢对手[qi2 feng2 dui4 shou3]
棋高一着	qi	zhao	to be a step ahead of the opponent (idiom); to outsmart one's opponent
棍网球	gun	qiu	lacrosse
棒子国	bang	guo	(derog.) Korea, esp. South Korea
棒子面	bang	mian	maize cornflour; corn mush; polenta
棒子面儿	bang	r	erhua variant of 棒子麵|棒子面[bang4 zi5 mian4]
棒打鸳鸯	bang	yang	(idiom) to cruelly separate lovers (esp. by family or societal pressure); to forcibly break up a couple against their will
棒旋星系	bang	xi	barred spiral galaxy
棒极了	bang	le	super; excellent
棒棒哒	bang	da	(Internet slang) awesome; amazing
棒棒机	bang	ji	bar phone (cell phone shaped like a bar of candy)
棒棒糖	bang	tang	lollipop; sucker; CL:根[gen1]
棒棒腿	bang	tui	chicken drumstick (Tw)
棒球迷	bang	mi	baseball fan
棒磨机	bang	ji	rod mill
棒约翰	bang	han	Papa John's (pizza chain)
棕三趾鹑	zong	chun	(bird species of China) barred buttonquail (Turnix suscitator)
棕喉雀鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-throated fulvetta (Schoeniparus rufogularis)
棕噪鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) buffy laughingthrush (Pterorhinus berthemyi)
棕夜鹭	zong	lu	(bird species of China) nankeen night heron (Nycticorax caledonicus)
棕头幽鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) puff-throated babbler (Pellorneum ruficeps)
棕头歌鸲	zong	qu	(bird species of China) rufous-headed robin (Larvivora ruficeps)
棕头钩嘴鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) red-billed scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus ochraceiceps)
棕头雀鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) spectacled fulvetta (Fulvetta ruficapilla)
棕头鸥	zong	ou	(bird species of China) brown-headed gull (Chroicocephalus brunnicephalus)
棕头鸦雀	zong	que	(bird species of China) vinous-throated parrotbill (Suthora webbiana)
棕尾伯劳	zong	lao	(bird species of China) red-tailed shrike (Lanius phoenicuroides)
棕尾虹雉	zong	zhi	(bird species of China) Himalayan monal (Lophophorus impejanus)
棕尾褐鹟	zong	weng	(bird species of China) ferruginous flycatcher (Muscicapa ferruginea)
棕扇尾莺	zong	ying	(bird species of China) zitting cisticola (Cisticola juncidis)
棕斑鸠	zong	jiu	(bird species of China) laughing dove (Spilopelia senegalensis)
棕朱雀	zong	que	(bird species of China) dark-rumped rosefinch (Carpodacus edwardsii)
棕枕山雀	zong	que	(bird species of China) rufous-naped tit (Periparus rufonuchalis)
棕枝主日	zong	ri	Palm Sunday (Sunday before Easter)
棕枝全日	zong	ri	Palm Sunday (Christian Festival one week before Easter)
棕榈属	zong	shu	palm tree genus (Areca spp.)
棕榈树	zong	shu	palm tree
棕榈油	zong	you	palm oil
棕榈科	zong	ke	Arecaceae or Palmae, the palm family
棕榈襞	zong	bi	(anatomy) the palmate folds of the cervical canal; plicae palmatae
棕眉山岩鹨	zong	liu	(bird species of China) Siberian accentor (Prunella montanella)
棕眉柳莺	zong	ying	(bird species of China) yellow-streaked warbler (Phylloscopus armandii)
棕矮星	zong	xing	brown dwarf star
棕肛凤鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-vented yuhina (Yuhina occipitalis)
棕背伯劳	zong	lao	(bird species of China) long-tailed shrike (Lanius schach)
棕背田鸡	zong	ji	(bird species of China) black-tailed crake (Zapornia bicolor)
棕背雪雀	zong	que	(bird species of China) Blanford's snowfinch (Pyrgilauda blanfordi)
棕背黑头鸫	zong	dong	(bird species of China) white-backed thrush; Kessler's thrush (Turdus kessleri)
棕胸佛法僧	zong	seng	(bird species of China) Indochinese roller (Coracias affinis)
棕胸岩鹨	zong	liu	(bird species of China) rufous-breasted accentor (Prunella strophiata)
棕胸竹鸡	zong	ji	(bird species of China) mountain bamboo partridge (Bambusicola fytchii)
棕胸蓝姬鹟	zong	weng	(bird species of China) snowy-browed flycatcher (Ficedula hyperythra)
棕胸雅鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) buff-breasted babbler (Pellorneum tickelli)
棕脸鹟莺	zong	ying	(bird species of China) rufous-faced warbler (Abroscopus albogularis)
棕腹仙鹟	zong	weng	(bird species of China) rufous-bellied niltava (Niltava sundara)
棕腹啄木鸟	zong	niao	(bird species of China) rufous-bellied woodpecker (Dendrocopos hyperythrus)
棕腹大仙鹟	zong	weng	(bird species of China) Fujian niltava (Niltava davidi)
棕腹杜鹃	zong	juan	(bird species of China) Malaysian hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx fugax)
棕腹林鸲	zong	qu	(bird species of China) rufous-breasted bush robin (Tarsiger hyperythrus)
棕腹柳莺	zong	ying	(bird species of China) buff-throated warbler (Phylloscopus subaffinis)
棕腹树鹊	zong	que	(bird species of China) rufous treepie (Dendrocitta vagabunda)
棕腹蓝仙鹟	zong	weng	(bird species of China) Chinese vivid niltava (Niltava oatesi)
棕腹隼雕	zong	diao	(bird species of China) rufous-bellied eagle (Lophotriorchis kienerii)
棕腹鵙鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) black-headed shrike-babbler (Pteruthius rufiventer)
棕臀噪鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-vented laughingthrush (Pterorhinus gularis)
棕草鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) Tibetan babax (Pterorhinus koslowi)
棕蓑猫	zong	mao	see 蟹獴[xie4 meng3]
棕薮鸲	zong	qu	(bird species of China) rufous-tailed scrub robin (Cercotrichas galactotes)
棕褐短翅莺	zong	ying	(bird species of China) brown bush warbler (Locustella luteoventris)
棕褐色	zong	se	tan; sepia
棕雨燕	zong	yan	(bird species of China) Asian palm swift (Cypsiurus balasiensis)
棕顶树莺	zong	ying	(bird species of China) grey-sided bush warbler (Cettia brunnifrons)
棕颈犀鸟	zong	niao	(bird species of China) rufous-necked hornbill (Aceros nipalensis)
棕颈钩嘴鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) streak-breasted scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus ruficollis)
棕颈雪雀	zong	que	(bird species of China) rufous-necked snowfinch (Pyrgilauda ruficollis)
棕颈鸭	zong	ya	(bird species of China) Philippine duck (Anas luzonica)
棕颏噪鹛	zong	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-chinned laughingthrush (Ianthocincla rufogularis)
棕额长尾山雀	zong	que	(bird species of China) rufous-fronted bushtit (Aegithalos iouschistos)
棘皮动物	ji	wu	echinoderm, the phylum containing sea urchins, sea cucumbers etc
棘鼻青岛龙	ji	long	Tsintaosaurus spinorhinus, a 10 meter long hadrosaur with a single horn on its duck-billed snout
棚户区	peng	qu	shantytown
棚架格子	peng	zi	trellis latticework
森喜朗	sen	lang	MORI Yoshirō (1937-), Japanese rugby player and politician, prime minister 2000-2001, famous for numerous gaffes
森巴舞	sen	wu	samba (Tw) (loanword)
森林培育	sen	yu	forestry; silviculture
森林浴	sen	yu	forest bathing: spending time in a forest, walking or deep-breathing etc, as therapy (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 森林浴 "shinrin'yoku")
森林脑炎	sen	yan	forest encephalitis
森海塞尔	sen	er	Sennheiser (brand)
森罗宝殿	sen	dian	Yama's palace
森罗殿	sen	dian	the Palace of the King of Hell 閻王|阎王[Yan2 wang5]
森美兰	sen	lan	Sembilan, state of southwest Malaysia
棺材板	guan	ban	wooden board used to make a coffin (also refers to the coffin itself); (fig.) (of a facial expression) grim; unsmiling; coffin bread, a Taiwanese snack consisting of a thick slab of bread, fried or toasted, then hollowed out, filled with a thick stew, and capped with a "coffin lid" (slice of fried bread)
棺材瓤子	guan	zi	geezer with one foot in the grave (used jokingly or as an imprecation)
植入式广告	zhi	gao	product placement
植树节	zhi	jie	Arbor Day (observed on March 12th in China)
植树造林	zhi	lin	afforestation
植根于	zhi	yu	to be rooted to; to take root in
植物人	zhi	ren	person in a vegetative state; human vegetable
植物人状态	zhi	tai	vegetative state (i.e. in a coma)
植物化学成分	zhi	fen	phytochemical
植物园	zhi	yuan	botanical garden; arboretum
植物学	zhi	xue	botany
植物学家	zhi	jia	botanist
植物油	zhi	you	vegetable oil
植物牛油	zhi	you	margarine
植物状态	zhi	tai	vegetative state (medicine)
植物界	zhi	jie	Kingdom Plantae (biology)
植物群	zhi	qun	flora
植物肉	zhi	rou	plant-based meat
植物脂肪	zhi	fang	vegetable fat
植脂末	zhi	mo	non-dairy creamer powder
椎间盘	zhui	pan	intervertebral disk
椒江区	jiao	qu	Jiaojiang, a district of Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
椭圆函数	tuo	shu	(math.) elliptic function
椭圆形	tuo	xing	oval
椭圆形办公室	tuo	shi	Oval Office
椭圆曲线	tuo	xian	(math.) elliptic curve
椭圆机	tuo	ji	elliptical machine (exercise)
椭圆积分	tuo	fen	(math.) elliptic integral
椰壳纤维	ye	wei	coconut fiber; coir
椰子汁	ye	zhi	coconut water
椰子猫	ye	mao	Asian palm civet (Paradoxurus hermaphroditus), also called toddy cat
椰子蟹	ye	xie	coconut crab (Birgus latro)
椰林飘香	ye	xiang	piña colada
椰菜花	ye	hua	cauliflower (Brassica oleracea var. botrytis)
楔嘴鹩鹛	xie	mei	(bird species of China) Cachar wedge-billed babbler (Sphenocichla roberti)
楔尾伯劳	xie	lao	(bird species of China) Chinese grey shrike (Lanius sphenocercus)
楔尾绿鸠	xie	jiu	(bird species of China) wedge-tailed green pigeon (Treron sphenurus)
楔尾鸥	xie	ou	(bird species of China) Ross's gull (Rhodostethia rosea)
楔形文字	xie	zi	cuneiform (Babylonian script)
楔形物	xie	wu	wedge
楚庄王	chu	wang	King Zhuang of Chu (reigned 613-591 BC), one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
楚怀王	chu	wang	King Huai of Chu (reigned 328-299 BC); later King Huai of Chu (reigned 208-205 BC)
楚楚可怜	chu	lian	(idiom) pitiable; sweet, innocent and vulnerable
楚汉战争	chu	zheng	Chu-Han Contention (206-202 BC), power struggle between Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] of Han and Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3] of Chu
楚汉相争	chu	zheng	see 楚漢戰爭|楚汉战争[Chu3 Han4 Zhan4 zheng1]
楚河汉界	chu	jie	lit. the river that divides Chu and Han; fig. a line that divides rival territories; the mid-line between sides on a Chinese chessboard
楚雄州	chu	zhou	see 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
楚雄市	chu	shi	Chuxiong, a county-level city in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
楚雄彝族自治州	chu	zhou	Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
楞头青	leng	qing	variant of 愣頭青|愣头青[leng4 tou2 qing1]
楞子眼	leng	yan	(dialect) vacant look of a drunk or imbecile
楞迦岛	leng	dao	Lanka (old term for Sri Lanka, Ceylon)
楠格哈尔省	nan	sheng	Nangarhar province of Afghanistan
楠梓区	nan	qu	Nanzi or Nantzu district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
楼梯口	lou	kou	head of a flight of stairs
楼梯台	lou	tai	staircase balcony; landing
楼梯间	lou	jian	staircase; flight of stairs
楼阁塔	lou	ta	multistory pagoda
概型理论	gai	lun	scheme theory (math.)
概念化	gai	hua	conceptualization
概念地图	gai	tu	mind map
概念驱动加工	gai	gong	concept-driven processing
概念验证	gai	zheng	proof of concept
概括化	gai	hua	generalization
概测法	gai	fa	rough-and-ready method; rule of thumb
概率论	gai	lun	probability (math.)
概而不论	gai	lun	fuzzy about the details
概而言之	gai	zhi	same as 總而言之|总而言之[zong3 er2 yan2 zhi1]
榆中县	yu	xian	Yuzhong, a county in Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
榆木疙瘩	yu	da	(lit.) knot on an elm tree (idiom); (fig.) blockhead; dunce
榆木脑壳	yu	ke	(coll.) a blockhead; a thickhead
榆木脑袋	yu	dai	(coll.) thickhead; (coll.) thick skull (i.e. the brain of a thickhead)
榆林市	yu	shi	Yulin, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
榆树市	yu	shi	Yushu, a county-level city in Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
榆次区	yu	qu	Yuci, a district of Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
榆社县	yu	xian	Yushe, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
榆阳区	yu	qu	Yuyang, a district of Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
榕城区	rong	qu	Rongcheng, a district of Jieyang City 揭陽市|揭阳市[Jie1 yang2 Shi4], Guangdong
榕江县	rong	xian	Rongjiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
榛仁儿	zhen	r	erhua variant of 榛仁[zhen1 ren2]
榜一大哥	bang	ge	highest-ranking donor of a live streamer
榜葛剌	bang	la	old Chinese name for Bengal, now written 孟加拉[Meng4 jia1 la1]
榨汁机	zha	ji	juicer
榨酒池	zha	chi	winepress
榴弹发射器	liu	qi	grenade launcher
榴弹炮	liu	pao	howitzer
榴莲族	liu	zu	worker who is capable but unpleasant to deal with
榴霰弹	liu	dan	shrapnel shell; shrapnel; also pr. [liu2 san3 dan4]
榻榻米	ta	mi	tatami (loanword from Japanese)
槐荫区	huai	qu	Huaiyin, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
槛花笼鹤	jian	he	a flower in a cage, a crane in a basket (idiom); prisoner
槟榔屿	bing	yu	(old name) Penang Island, Malaysia
槟榔西施	bing	shi	(Tw) betel nut beauty: a skimpily-dressed, attractive girl who sells betel nut from a glass-walled roadside booth
槭糖浆	qi	jiang	maple syrup
槲寄生	hu	sheng	mistletoe
槽罐车	cao	che	tanker truck; tank truck
槽齿目	cao	mu	Thecodontia (obsolete taxonomic grouping of reptiles)
槽齿类	cao	lei	thecodont (type of reptile that existed in the Permian and Triassic Periods)
樊城区	fan	qu	Fancheng, a district of Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
樟树市	zhang	shi	Zhangshu, a county-level city in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
樟脑丸	zhang	wan	camphor balls; moth balls
樟脑球	zhang	qiu	camphor balls; moth balls
模仿品	mo	pin	imitation product; counterfeit; knockoff
模块化	mo	hua	modularity
模块化理论	mo	lun	modularity theory
模块单元	mo	yuan	modular unit
模块式	mo	shi	modular
模块板	mo	ban	module board
模式标本	mo	ben	type specimen (used to define a species)
模式种	mo	zhong	type species (used to define a genus in taxonomy)
模拟信号	mo	hao	analog signal
模拟器	mo	qi	emulator
模拟放大器	mo	qi	analog amplifier
模数转换器	mo	qi	analog-to-digital converter (ADC)
模棱两可	mo	ke	equivocal; ambiguous
模特儿	mo	r	(fashion) model (loanword)
模糊不清	mo	qing	indistinct; fuzzy; blurred with age
模糊数学	mo	xue	fuzzy mathematics
模糊逻辑	mo	ji	fuzzy logic
模里西斯	mo	si	Mauritius (Tw)
横七竖八	heng	ba	in disorder; at sixes and sevens (idiom)
横三竖四	heng	si	in disorder; in a tremendous mess
横冲直撞	heng	zhuang	(idiom) to barge through, jostling and elbowing; to charge around; to rampage
横冲直闯	heng	chuang	see 橫衝直撞|横冲直撞[heng2 chong1 zhi2 zhuang4]
横刀夺爱	heng	ai	to rob sb of sth they cherish (idiom)
横剖面	heng	mian	horizontal section
横加指责	heng	ze	to blame unscrupulously
横坐标	heng	biao	horizontal coordinate; abscissa
横头横脑	heng	nao	coarse and arrogant; always in the right
横尸遍野	heng	ye	corpses are strewn across the field (typically after a battle)
横山区	heng	qu	Hengshan, a district of Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
横峰县	heng	xian	Hengfeng, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
横州市	heng	shi	Hengzhou, a county-level city in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
横幅标语	heng	yu	slogan banner
横征暴敛	heng	lian	to tax by force and extort levies (idiom); to screw taxes out of the people by force
横截线	heng	xian	transversal line
横截面	heng	mian	cross-section
横扫千军	heng	jun	total annihilation
横挑鼻子竖挑眼	heng	yan	to pick on sth incessantly (idiom); to criticize right and left
横振动	heng	dong	transverse vibration
横斑林莺	heng	ying	(bird species of China) barred warbler (Curruca nisoria)
横斑腹小鸮	heng	xiao	(bird species of China) spotted owlet (Athene brama)
横斜钩	heng	gou	⺄ stroke in Chinese characters
横断山脉	heng	mai	Hengduan mountains, several parallel mountain ranges on the border between west Yunnan and Sichuan and east Tibet
横断步道	heng	dao	pedestrian crossing
横断物	heng	wu	transverse object
横断面	heng	mian	horizontal section
横棱纹	heng	wen	crosswise pattern
横楣子	heng	zi	lintel
横生枝节	heng	jie	to deliberately complicate an issue (idiom)
横眉冷对千夫指	heng	zhi	to face a thousand pointing fingers with a cool scowl (citation from Lu Xun); to treat with disdain; to defy
横眉怒目	heng	mu	lit. furrowed brows and blazing eyes; to dart looks of hate at sb (idiom)
横眉立目	heng	mu	to scowl and stare down; to defy
横眉竖眼	heng	yan	to scowl fiercely; to glare
横神经	heng	jing	transverse commissure
横空出世	heng	shi	(idiom) to come to the fore in spectacular fashion; to emerge from obscurity to achieve great success
横竖劲儿	heng	r	firmness of determination
横筋斗	heng	dou	cartwheel
横纹肌	heng	ji	striated muscle
横结肠	heng	chang	transverse colon (anatomy); second section of large intestine
横翻筋斗	heng	dou	to turn cartwheels
横膈膜	heng	mo	(anatomy) diaphragm
横行无忌	heng	ji	(idiom) to run rampant; to act with impunity
横行霸道	heng	dao	to oppress; to rule as a despot; to tyrannize
横说竖说	heng	shuo	to explain sth over and over again; to repeat
横躺竖卧	heng	wo	to lie down all over the place; exhausted and in disarray
横隔膜	heng	mo	variant of 橫膈膜|横膈膜[heng2 ge2 mo2]
横须贺	heng	he	Yokosuka (port and navy base in the Tokyo bay)
横须贺市	heng	shi	Yokosuka city and US naval base to the west of Yokohama, Japan
樱桃园	ying	yuan	The Cherry Orchard, a play by Chekhov 契訶夫|契诃夫[Qi4 he1 fu1]
樱桃小口	ying	kou	see 櫻桃小嘴|樱桃小嘴[ying1 tao2 xiao3 zui3]
樱桃小嘴	ying	zui	lit. cherry mouth (idiom); fig. a delicate, ruby-lipped mouth
樱桃番茄	ying	qie	cherry tomato
樱桃萝卜	ying	bo	small red radish
樱花国	ying	guo	(slang) Japan
樱花妹	ying	mei	(coll.) Japanese girl
樱花草	ying	cao	primrose
橄榄山	gan	shan	Mount of Olives (in the Christian passion story)
橄榄岩	gan	yan	peridotite (geology)
橄榄枝	gan	zhi	olive branch; (fig.) conciliatory gesture; overture of goodwill; (fig.) favorable offer or invitation (e.g. of employment or admission)
橄榄树	gan	shu	olive tree
橄榄油	gan	you	olive oil
橄榄球	gan	qiu	football played with oval-shaped ball (rugby, American football, Australian rules etc)
橄榄石	gan	shi	olivine (rock-forming mineral magnesium-iron silicate (Mg,Fe)2SiO4); peridot
橄榄绿	gan	lv	olive-green (color)
橐中装	tuo	zhuang	gems; jewels; valuables
橘子水	ju	shui	orangeade; orange squash; CL:瓶[ping2],杯[bei1],罐[guan4],盒[he2]
橘子汁	ju	zhi	orange juice; CL:瓶[ping2],杯[bei1],罐[guan4],盒[he2]; see also 橙汁[cheng2 zhi1]
橘子酱	ju	jiang	orange jam; marmalade
橘皮组织	ju	zhi	cellulite
橘里橘气	ju	qi	lesbian-like (i.e. exhibiting lesbian traits) (coined c. 2018)
橘黄色	ju	se	tangerine yellow; saffron (color)
橙头地鸫	cheng	dong	(bird species of China) orange-headed thrush (Geokichla citrina)
橙斑翅柳莺	cheng	ying	(bird species of China) buff-barred warbler (Phylloscopus pulcher)
橙皮果酱	cheng	jiang	(orange) marmalade
橙红色	cheng	se	red-orange color; dark orange
橙翅噪鹛	cheng	mei	(bird species of China) Elliot's laughingthrush (Trochalopteron elliotii)
橙胸咬鹃	cheng	juan	(bird species of China) orange-breasted trogon (Harpactes oreskios)
橙胸姬鹟	cheng	weng	(bird species of China) rufous-gorgeted flycatcher (Ficedula strophiata)
橙胸绿鸠	cheng	jiu	(bird species of China) orange-breasted green pigeon (Treron bicinctus)
橙腹叶鹎	cheng	bei	(bird species of China) orange-bellied leafbird (Chloropsis hardwickii)
橙色剂	cheng	ji	Agent Orange (herbicide)
橙色战剂	cheng	ji	Agent Orange (herbicide)
橙黄色	cheng	se	orange yellow; tangerine yellow; chrome yellow; amber
橡子面	xiang	mian	acorn flour
橡子面儿	xiang	r	erhua variant of 橡子麵|橡子面[xiang4 zi5 mian4]
橡皮图章	xiang	zhang	(lit. and fig.) rubber stamp
橡皮擦	xiang	ca	eraser; rubber; CL:塊|块[kuai4]
橡皮泥	xiang	ni	plasticine; modeling clay
橡皮球	xiang	qiu	rubber ball
橡皮筋	xiang	jin	rubber band
橡皮线	xiang	xian	wire (sheathed in rubber); cable
橡皮膏	xiang	gao	sticking plaster; adhesive bandage
橡皮艇	xiang	ting	rubber dinghy
橡胶树	xiang	shu	rubber tree
檀君王	tan	wang	Tangun, legendary founder of Korea in 2333 BC
檀香山	tan	shan	Honolulu, capital of Hawaii; also transliterated as 火奴魯魯|火奴鲁鲁
次一个	ci	ge	next one (in order)
次世代	ci	dai	next-generation
次亚硫酸钠	ci	na	sodium hyposulfide Na2S2O3 (hypo)
次声波	ci	bo	infrasonic wave
次大陆	ci	lu	subcontinent (e.g. the Indian subcontinent)
次文化	ci	hua	subculture
次方言	ci	yan	subdialect
次正装	ci	zhuang	smart casual attire
次氯酸	ci	suan	hypochlorous acid HOCl (bleach)
次溴酸	ci	suan	hypobromous acid HOBr
次生林	ci	lin	secondary growth of forest
次生灾害	ci	hai	secondary disaster (e.g. epidemic following floods)
次级房屋信贷危机	ci	ji	subprime mortgage crisis
次级抵押贷款	ci	kuan	subprime mortgage
次级贷款	ci	kuan	subprime lending; abbr. to 次貸|次贷[ci4 dai4]
次贷危机	ci	ji	subprime mortgage crisis; abbr. for 次級房屋信貸危機|次级房屋信贷危机[ci4 ji2 fang2 wu1 xin4 dai4 wei1 ji1]
次重量级	ci	ji	middle heavyweight (boxing etc)
欢乐时光	huan	guang	happy time; happy hour (in bars etc)
欢呼雀跃	huan	yue	cheering excitedly (idiom); jubilant
欢喜冤家	huan	jia	quarrelsome but loving couple
欢声笑语	huan	yu	cheers and laughter
欢天喜地	huan	di	delighted; with great joy; in high spirits
欢忭鼓舞	huan	wu	see 歡欣鼓舞|欢欣鼓舞[huan1 xin1 gu3 wu3]
欢欢喜喜	huan	xi	happily
欢欣雀跃	huan	yue	elated; overjoyed
欢欣鼓舞	huan	wu	(idiom) elated and excited; overjoyed
欢聚一堂	huan	tang	to gather happily under one roof
欢蹦乱跳	huan	tiao	glowing with health and vivacity (idiom)
欢迎光临	huan	lin	Welcome! (used by staff to greet customers when they enter a shop or restaurant)
欢送会	huan	hui	farewell party
欣喜若狂	xin	kuang	to be wild with joy (idiom)
欣欣向荣	xin	rong	(idiom) flourishing; thriving
欧买嘎	ou	ga	(loanword) oh my God!
欧亚喜鹊	ou	que	(bird species of China) Eurasian magpie (Pica pica)
欧亚大陆	ou	lu	Eurasia
欧亚红尾鸲	ou	qu	(bird species of China) common redstart (Phoenicurus phoenicurus)
欧亚鸲	ou	qu	(bird species of China) European robin (Erithacus rubecula)
欧佩克	ou	ke	OPEC; Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries
欧元区	ou	qu	Eurozone
欧共体	ou	ti	abbr. for 歐洲共同體|欧洲共同体, European Community (old term for the EU, European Union)
欧几里得	ou	de	Euclid of Alexandria (c. 300 BC), Greek geometer and author of the Elements 幾何原本|几何原本[Ji3 he2 Yuan2 ben3]
欧几里德	ou	de	variant of 歐幾里得|欧几里得[Ou1 ji3 li3 de2]
欧吉桑	ou	sang	older man; man of mature years (Japanese loanword)
欧咪呀给	ou	gei	(Tw) gift given when visiting sb (esp. a local specialty brought back from one's travels, or a special product of one's own country taken overseas) (loanword from Japanese "omiyage")
欧夜鹰	ou	ying	(bird species of China) European nightjar (Caprimulgus europaeus)
欧姆蛋	ou	dan	(Tw) omelette
欧姆龙	ou	long	Omron Corporation (Japanese electronics company)
欧安组织	ou	zhi	Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), abbr. for 歐洲安全與合作組織|欧洲安全与合作组织[Ou1 zhou1 An1 quan2 yu3 He2 zuo4 Zu3 zhi1]
欧巴桑	ou	sang	older female; woman of mature years (Japanese loanword)
欧巴马	ou	ma	(Tw) Barack Obama (1961–), US Democrat politician, president 2009–2017
欧式几何	ou	he	Euclidean geometry
欧当归	ou	gui	(botany) lovage; Levisticum officinale
欧文斯	ou	si	Owens (name)
欧斑鸠	ou	jiu	(bird species of China) European turtle dove (Streptopelia turtur)
欧柏林	ou	lin	Oberlin
欧柳莺	ou	ying	(bird species of China) willow warbler (Phylloscopus trochilus)
欧歌鸫	ou	dong	(bird species of China) song thrush (Turdus philomelos)
欧氏几何	ou	he	Euclidean geometry
欧洲中央银行	ou	hang	European Central Bank
欧洲之星	ou	xing	Eurostar (train line)
欧洲人	ou	ren	European (person)
欧洲共同体	ou	ti	European Community, old term for EU, European Union 歐盟|欧盟[Ou1 meng2]
欧洲共同市场	ou	chang	European common market (old term for EU, European Union)
欧洲刑警组织	ou	zhi	Europol (European Police Office)
欧洲大陆	ou	lu	continent of Europe
欧洲安全与合作组织	ou	zhi	Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
欧洲安全和合作组织	ou	zhi	Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE)
欧洲山杨	ou	yang	European poplar (Populus tremula)
欧洲杯	ou	bei	European Cup (e.g. soccer)
欧洲核子中心	ou	xin	European Organization for Nuclear Research CERN, at Geneva
欧洲核子研究中心	ou	xin	European Organization for Nuclear Research CERN, at Geneva
欧洲歌唱大赛	ou	sai	Eurovision Song Contest
欧洲法院	ou	yuan	European Court of Justice
欧洲理事会	ou	hui	European Council
欧洲联盟	ou	meng	European Union (EU)
欧洲自由贸易联盟	ou	meng	European Free Trade Association
欧洲航天局	ou	ju	European Space Agency (ESA)
欧洲议会	ou	hui	European Parliament
欧洲防风	ou	feng	parsnip (Pastinaca sativa)
欧盟委员会	ou	hui	Commission of European Union
欧石鸻	ou	heng	(bird species of China) Eurasian stone-curlew (Burhinus oedicnemus)
欧米伽	ou	ga	omega (Greek letter Ω, ω); also pr. [ou1mi3jia1]
欧米茄表公司	ou	si	Omega SA, Swiss luxury watchmaker
欧纳西斯	ou	si	see 奧納西斯|奥纳西斯[Ao4 na4 xi1 si1]
欧罗巴	ou	ba	Europe; Europa
欧罗巴洲	ou	zhou	Europe; abbr. to 歐洲|欧洲[Ou1 zhou1]
欧胡岛	ou	dao	Oʻahu, third-largest and most populated island of the Hawaiian archipelago
欧若拉	ou	la	Aurora, Roman goddess of dawn
欧莱雅	ou	ya	L'Oréal (French cosmetics company)
欧莳萝	ou	luo	cumin (Cuminum cyminum)
欧蝶鱼	ou	yu	plaice
欧车前	ou	qian	psyllium (genus Plantago)
欧里庇得斯	ou	si	Euripides (c. 480-406 BC), Greek tragedian, author of Medea, Trojan Women etc
欧金斑鸻	ou	heng	(bird species of China) European golden plover (Pluvialis apricaria)
欧金翅雀	ou	que	(bird species of China) European greenfinch (Chloris chloris)
欧阳予倩	ou	qian	Ouyang Yuqian (1889-1962), Chinese actor
欧阳修	ou	xiu	Ouyang Xiu (1007-1072), Northern Song dynasty prose writer and historian
欧阳询	ou	xun	Ouyang Xun (557-641), one of Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang 唐初四大家[Tang2 chu1 Si4 Da4 jia1]
欲仙欲死	yu	si	to experience sheer ecstasy (or, when used ironically, sheer hell)
欲加之罪何患无辞	yu	ci	If you want to condemn sb, don't worry about the pretext (idiom, from Zuozhuan 左傳|左传); one can always trump up a charge against sb; Give a dog a bad name, then hang him.
欲取姑与	yu	yu	(idiom) to make concessions for the sake of future gains
欲取姑予	yu	yu	variant of 欲取姑與|欲取姑与[yu4 qu3 gu1 yu3]
欲壑难填	yu	tian	(idiom) insatiably greedy
欲振乏力	yu	li	to try to rouse oneself but lack the strength (idiom)
欲擒故纵	yu	zong	In order to capture, one must let loose.; to loosen the reins only to grasp them better
欲火焚身	yu	shen	burning with desire
欲益反损	yu	sun	wishing for profit, but causing loss (idiom); good intentions that lead to disaster; It all ends in tears.
欲盖弥彰	yu	zhang	trying to hide it makes it more conspicuous (idiom); A cover up only makes matters worse.
欲罢不能	yu	neng	want to stop but can't (idiom); to be unable to stop oneself; to feel an urge to continue
欲言又止	yu	zhi	to want to say sth but then hesitate
欲速则不达	yu	da	(idiom) (the Analects) haste makes waste; things can't be rushed
欲速而不达	yu	da	see 欲速則不達|欲速则不达[yu4 su4 ze2 bu4 da2]
欺世盗名	qi	ming	(idiom) to fool the world and usurp a good name
欺人太甚	qi	shen	(idiom) to bully intolerably
欺以其方	qi	fang	deceived by a pretense of reason (idiom)
欺君罔上	qi	shang	to dupe one's sovereign
欺男霸女	qi	nv	to oppress the people; to act tyrannically
欺行霸市	qi	shi	(idiom) to dominate the market through unfair, coercive or monopolistic practices
欺诈者	qi	zhe	deceiver
欺霜傲雪	qi	xue	(lit.) cold-resistant (idiom); (fig.) remaining strong in harsh conditions; resilient; unyielding
欺骗餐	qi	can	cheat meal
款到发货	kuan	huo	dispatch upon receipt of payment
歃血为盟	sha	meng	to smear the lips with blood when taking an oath (idiom); to swear a sacred oath
歇了吧	xie	ba	(dialect) give me a break!; forget about it!
歇后语	xie	yu	anapodoton (a saying in which the second part, uttered after a pause or totally left out, is the intended meaning of the allegory presented in the first part)
歇山顶	xie	ding	(East Asian) hip-and-gable roof
歇斯底里	xie	li	hysteria (loanword); hysterical
歌仔戏	ge	xi	type of opera from Taiwan and Fujian
歌利亚	ge	ya	Goliath
歌剧院	ge	yuan	opera house
歌剧院魅影	ge	ying	The Phantom of the Opera by Andrew Lloyd Webber
歌功颂德	ge	de	to sing sb's praises (mostly derogatory)
歌唱家	ge	jia	singer
歌唱赛	ge	sai	song contest
歌百灵	ge	ling	(bird species of China) singing bush lark (Mirafra javanica)
歌罗西	ge	xi	Colossia
歌罗西书	ge	shu	Epistle of St Paul to the Colossians
歌舞伎	ge	ji	kabuki
歌舞升平	ge	ping	(lit.) to celebrate peace with songs and dance (idiom); (fig.) to make a show of happiness and prosperity
歌舞团	ge	tuan	song and dance troupe
歌诗达邮轮	ge	lun	Costa Cruises (brand)
止咳糖浆	zhi	jiang	cough suppressant syrup; cough mixture
止损单	zhi	dan	stop-loss order (finance)
止损点	zhi	dian	(finance) stop-loss point (price at which one resolves to sell a security at a loss in order to avoid the possibility of having to sell later at an even lower price)
止汗剂	zhi	ji	anti-perspirant
止疼片	zhi	pian	painkiller; analgesic
止痛剂	zhi	ji	an analgesic; pain killer
止痛法	zhi	fa	method of relieving pain
止痛片	zhi	pian	painkiller
止痛药	zhi	yao	painkiller; analgesic; anodyne
止血垫	zhi	dian	dressing; pad to stop bleeding
止血栓	zhi	shuan	plug to stop bleeding; tampon (medicine)
止血贴	zhi	tie	Band-Aid; plaster
止闹按钮	zhi	niu	snooze button
正丁醚	zheng	mi	butyl ether
正中下怀	zheng	huai	exactly what one wants
正中要害	zheng	hai	to hit the nail on the head (idiom)
正义党	zheng	dang	Justicialist Party
正义斗争	zheng	zheng	righteous struggle
正义魔人	zheng	ren	(Tw) sanctimonious person; self-appointed moral arbiter
正交群	zheng	qun	orthogonal group (math.)
正人君子	zheng	zi	upright gentleman; man of honor
正仓院	zheng	yuan	Shōsō-in, a timber structure in Nara, Japan, built to house hundreds of artifacts bequeathed to the Tōdai-ji temple by the Japanese emperor Shōmu, who died in 756
正体字	zheng	zi	standard form of a Chinese character; (Tw) traditional (i.e. unsimplified) characters
正儿八板	zheng	ban	earnest; authentic
正儿八经	zheng	jing	serious; earnest; real
正六边形	zheng	xing	regular hexagon
正兰旗	zheng	qi	Plain Blue banner or Shuluun Höh khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
正则表达式	zheng	shi	regular expression (computing)
正副驾驶	zheng	shi	pilot and copilot
正半轴	zheng	zhou	positive semiaxis (in coordinate geometry)
正反两面	zheng	mian	two-way; reversible; both sides of the coin
正反馈	zheng	kui	positive feedback
正向力	zheng	li	normal force (physics)
正型标本	zheng	ben	holotype
正外部性	zheng	xing	positive influence, effect that people's doings or behavior have on others (society)
正多胞形	zheng	xing	convex polytope
正多面体	zheng	ti	regular polyhedron
正大光明	zheng	ming	just and honorable
正太控	zheng	kong	shotacon (Japanese loanword); manga or anime genre depicting young boys in an erotic manner
正字法	zheng	fa	orthography
正字通	zheng	tong	Zhengzitong, Chinese character dictionary with 33,549 entries, edited by Ming scholar Zhang Zilie 張自烈|张自烈[Zhang1 Zi4 lie4] in 17th century
正宁县	zheng	xian	Zhengning, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
正安县	zheng	xian	Zheng'an, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
正定县	zheng	xian	Zhengding, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
正宫娘娘	zheng	niang	empress
正常化	zheng	hua	normalization (of diplomatic relations etc)
正常工作	zheng	zuo	normal operation; proper functioning
正常成本	zheng	ben	normal cost (accountancy)
正常菌群	zheng	qun	microbiome; microbiota
正式投票	zheng	piao	formal vote
正弦定理	zheng	li	law of sines
正弦形	zheng	xing	sinusoidal (shaped like a sine wave)
正弦波	zheng	bo	sine wave; simple harmonic vibration
正当中	zheng	zhong	dead center; the very middle
正当年	zheng	nian	to be in the prime of life
正当性	zheng	xing	(political) legitimacy
正当时	zheng	shi	the right time for sth; the right season (for planting cabbage)
正当理由	zheng	you	proper reason; reasonable grounds
正当防卫	zheng	wei	reasonable self-defense; legitimate defense
正态分布	zheng	bu	(math.) normal distribution; Gaussian distribution
正投影	zheng	ying	orthogonal projection
正教真诠	zheng	quan	Exegesis of the Right Religion by Wang Daiyu 王岱輿|王岱舆[Wang2 Dai4 yu2], a study of Islam published during the Ming dynasty
正整数	zheng	shu	positive integer
正断层	zheng	ceng	normal fault (geology)
正方体	zheng	ti	a rectangular parallelepiped
正方向	zheng	xiang	forward direction; (math.) positive direction
正方形	zheng	xing	square
正无穷	zheng	qiong	(math.) positive infinity
正月初一	zheng	yi	New Year's Day in the lunar calendar
正模标本	zheng	ben	holotype
正步走	zheng	zou	to march at parade step; March! (military command)
正比例	zheng	li	direct proportionality
正电子	zheng	zi	positron (antiparticle of the electron)
正电子发射层析	zheng	xi	positron emission tomography (PET)
正电子照射断层摄影	zheng	ying	positrion emission tomography (PET)
正相关	zheng	guan	positive correlation
正离子	zheng	zi	positive ion; cation (physics)
正经事	zheng	shi	an important matter (sth work-related or productive etc)
正经八摆	zheng	bai	variant of 正經八百|正经八百[zheng4 jing1 ba1 bai3]
正经八板	zheng	ban	see 正經八百|正经八百[zheng4 jing1 ba1 bai3]
正经八百	zheng	bai	very serious; solemn
正能量	zheng	liang	positive energy; positivity
正脚鞋	zheng	xie	shoe that can be worn on either foot
正蓝旗	zheng	qi	Plain Blue banner or Shuluun Höh khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia; also written 正蘭旗|正兰旗
正襟危坐	zheng	zuo	to sit upright and still (idiom)
正规军	zheng	jun	regular army; standing army
正规教育	zheng	yu	regular education
正言厉色	zheng	se	solemn in word and countenance (idiom); strict and unsmiling; also written 正顏厲色|正颜厉色
正词法	zheng	fa	orthography (linguistics)
正误表	zheng	biao	corrigenda
正负号	zheng	hao	(math.) plus or minus sign; ±
正负电子	zheng	zi	positrons and electrons
正逢其时	zheng	shi	to come at the right time; to be opportune
正邪相争	zheng	zheng	term in TCM describing the progress of disease as an opposition between vital energy 正氣|正气[zheng4 qi4] and pathogeny 邪氣|邪气[xie2 qi4]
正镶白旗	zheng	qi	Plain and Bordered White banner or Shuluun Hövööt Chagaan khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
正长石	zheng	shi	orthoclase KAlSi3O8 (rock-forming mineral, type of feldspar)
正阳县	zheng	xian	Zhengyang, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
正颜厉色	zheng	se	solemn in countenance (idiom); strict and unsmiling
正驾驶	zheng	shi	pilot-in-command; captain (cf. 副駕駛|副驾驶[fu4 jia4 shi3], copilot)
正骨八法	zheng	fa	the eight methods of bonesetting; Chinese osteopathy
此一时彼一时	ci	shi	that was then, this is now; times have changed
此事体大	ci	da	see 茲事體大|兹事体大[zi1 shi4 ti3 da4]
此伏彼起	ci	qi	see 此起彼伏[ci3 qi3 bi3 fu2]
此地无银三百两	ci	liang	lit. 300 silver taels not hidden here (idiom); fig. to reveal what one intends to hide
此时此刻	ci	ke	at this very moment
此时此地	ci	di	here and now; as things stand
此消彼长	ci	zhang	(idiom) one declines while the other flourishes; one loses out when the other one gains (as in a trade-off or a zero-sum game)
此致敬礼	ci	li	respectfully yours (at the end of a letter)
此言不虚	ci	xu	see 此言非虛|此言非虚[ci3 yan2 fei1 xu1]
此言非虚	ci	xu	that is true
此话怎讲	ci	jiang	How do you mean?; How could that be the case?; How so?
此起彼伏	ci	fu	up here, down there (idiom); to rise and fall in succession; no sooner one subsides, the next arises; repeating continuously
此起彼落	ci	luo	to rise and fall in succession (idiom); repeating continuously
此路不通	ci	tong	this road is blocked; fig. This method does not work.; Doing this is no good.
步人后尘	bu	chen	to follow in other people's footsteps
步子太大容易扯着蛋	bu	dan	if you take too big a stride, you could easily rip your balls (catchphrase) (line spoken by actor 葛優|葛优[Ge3 You1] in the 2010 action comedy movie 讓子彈飛|让子弹飞[Rang4 Zi3 dan4 Fei1]); (fig.) take things one step at a time
步履维艰	bu	jian	to have difficulty walking (idiom); to walk with difficulty
步履蹒跚	bu	shan	(idiom) to walk unsteadily; to hobble along
步态蹒跚	bu	shan	to walk unsteadily
步步为营	bu	ying	to advance gradually and entrench oneself at every step; to consolidate at every step
步步高升	bu	sheng	to climb step by step; to rise steadily; on the up and up
步登公寓	bu	yu	(Tw) walk-up apartment (postwar building style with stair access and no elevator)
步罡踏斗	bu	dou	to worship the astral deities (idiom, refers to Daoist astrology)
步行区	bu	qu	pedestrian area
步行者	bu	zhe	pedestrian
步行虫	bu	chong	ground beetle
步行街	bu	jie	car-free zone; pedestrian street
步话机	bu	ji	walkie-talkie
步调一致	bu	zhi	to be united in action
步进制	bu	zhi	step by step system
步进马达	bu	da	stepper motor
武义县	wu	xian	Wuyi, a county in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
武乡县	wu	xian	Wuxiang, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
武仙座	wu	zuo	Hercules (constellation)
武侠小说	wu	shuo	a martial arts (wuxia) novel
武侯区	wu	qu	Wuhou, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
武侯祠	wu	ci	temple dedicated to the memory of Zhuge Liang 諸葛亮|诸葛亮[Zhu1 ge3 Liang4] (There is one in Chengdu, and many others in various parts of China.)
武冈市	wu	shi	Wugang, a county-level city in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
武则天	wu	tian	Wu Zetian (624-705), Tang empress, reigned 690-705
武功县	wu	xian	Wugong, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
武功山	wu	shan	Mt Wugong in Jiangxi
武器禁运	wu	yun	embargo on arms sale
武器系统	wu	tong	weapon system
武器级	wu	ji	weapons-grade
武城县	wu	xian	Wucheng, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
武士刀	wu	dao	katana
武士彟	wu	huo	Wu Shihuo (7th century), father of Tang empress Wu Zetian 武則天|武则天
武士道	wu	dao	bushidō or way of the warrior, samurai code of chivalry
武夷山	wu	shan	Mt Wuyi in Fujian; Wuyishan National Nature Reserve; see 武夷山市[Wu3 yi2 shan1 Shi4]
武夷山市	wu	shi	Wuyishan, a county-level city in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
武威市	wu	shi	Wuwei, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
武宁县	wu	xian	Wuning, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
武安市	wu	shi	Wu'an, a county-level city in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
武定县	wu	xian	Wuding, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
武宣县	wu	xian	Wuxuan, a county in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
武山县	wu	xian	Wushan, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
武山鸡	wu	ji	see 烏骨雞|乌骨鸡[wu1 gu3 ji1]; black-boned chicken; silky fowl
武川县	wu	xian	Wuchuan, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
武平县	wu	xian	Wuping, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
武强县	wu	xian	Wuqiang, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
武当山	wu	shan	Wudang Mountain range in northwest Hubei
武打片	wu	pian	action movie; kungfu movie
武昌区	wu	qu	Wuchang, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
武昌起义	wu	yi	Wuchang Uprising of October 10th, 1911, which led to Sun Yat-sen's Xinhai Revolution and the fall of the Qing dynasty
武汉大学	wu	xue	Wuhan University
武汉市	wu	shi	Wuhan, sub-provincial city and capital of Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
武汉钢铁公司	wu	si	Wuhan Iron and Steel
武江区	wu	qu	Wujiang, a district of Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
武清区	wu	qu	Wuqing rural district in Tianjin 天津[Tian1 jin1]
武王伐纣	wu	zhou	King Wu of Zhou 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2] overthrows tyrant Zhou of Shang 商紂王|商纣王[Shang1 Zhou4 wang2]
武穴市	wu	shi	Wuxue, a county-level city in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
武经七书	wu	shu	Seven Military Classics of ancient China viz "Six Secret Strategic Teachings" 六韜|六韬[Liu4 tao1], "Methods of Sima" 司馬法|司马法[Si1 ma3 Fa3], "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3], "Wuzi" 吳子|吴子[Wu2 zi3], "Wei Liaozi" 尉繚子|尉缭子[Wei4 Liao2 zi5], "Three Strategies of Huang Shigong" 黃石公三略|黄石公三略[Huang2 Shi2 gong1 San1 lu:e4] and "Duke Li of Wei Answering Emperor Taizong of Tang" 唐太宗李衛公問對|唐太宗李卫公问对[Tang2 Tai4 zong1 Li3 Wei4 Gong1 Wen4 dui4]
武经总要	wu	yao	"Collection of the Most Important Military Techniques", book published in 1044 during the Northern Song Dynasty
武胜县	wu	xian	Wusheng, a county in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
武艺高强	wu	qiang	highly skilled in martial arts
武装冲突	wu	tu	armed conflict
武装分子	wu	zi	armed fighter; gunman
武装力量	wu	liang	armed force
武装部队	wu	dui	armed forces
武警战士	wu	shi	armed fighters; armed police; militia
武警部队	wu	dui	People's Armed Police
武进区	wu	qu	Wujin, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
武邑县	wu	xian	Wuyi, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
武都区	wu	qu	Wudu, a district of Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
武都市	wu	shi	Wudu city in Gansu
武陟县	wu	xian	Wuzhi, a county in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
武陵区	wu	qu	Wuling, a district of Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
武陵源	wu	yuan	Wulingyuan scenic area, in Zhangjiajie city 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 shi4], Hunan
武隆区	wu	qu	Wulong, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
武鸣区	wu	qu	Wuming, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
歧路灯	qi	deng	Lamp in the Side Street, novel by Qing dynasty writer Li Lüyuan 李綠園|李绿园[Li3 Lu:4 yuan2]; also written 岐路燈|岐路灯[Qi2 lu4 Deng1]
歪打正着	wai	zhao	to succeed by a lucky stroke
歪果仁	wai	ren	(slang) foreigner (pun on 外國人|外国人[wai4 guo2 ren2])
歪歪扭扭	wai	niu	crooked; askew
歪歪斜斜	wai	xie	shuddering; trembling; a trembling scrawl (of handwriting)
歪点子	wai	zi	illegal device; devious; crooked
歪瓜裂枣	wai	zao	ugly; repulsive
歪门邪道	wai	dao	dishonest practices
歪风邪气	wai	qi	noxious winds, evil influences (idiom); malignant social trends
死不了	si	liao	Portulaca Sundial (a type of plant)
死不改悔	si	hui	not to repent even facing death (idiom); unrepentant; very obstinate
死不瞑目	si	mu	lit. not close one's eyes after dying (idiom); fig. to die with an unresolved grievance
死不要脸	si	lian	to know no shame; to be totally shameless
死中求生	si	sheng	to seek life in death (idiom); to fight for one's life
死乞白赖	si	lai	to pester someone again and again
死于安乐	si	le	see 生於憂患，死於安樂|生于忧患，死于安乐[sheng1 yu2 you1 huan4 , si3 yu2 an1 le4]
死于非命	si	ming	violent death (idiom); to die in a disaster; an unnatural death
死亡人数	si	shu	number of people killed; death toll
死亡率	si	lv	mortality rate
死亡笔记	si	ji	Death note (Japanese: デスノート), translation of cult manga series by author ŌBA Tsugumi 大場鶇|大场鸫[Da4 chang3 Dong1] (pen-name) and illustrator OBATA Takeshi 小畑健[Xiao3 tian2 Jian4]
死人不管	si	guan	(coll.) to wash one's hands of a matter
死伤者	si	zhe	casualty (of an accident); dead and wounded
死刑缓期执行	si	xing	deferred death sentence; abbr. to 死緩|死缓[si3 huan3]
死到临头	si	tou	Death is near at hand. (idiom)
死劲儿	si	r	erhua variant of 死勁|死劲[si3 jin4]
死去活来	si	lai	to hover between life and death (idiom); to suffer terribly; within an inch of one's life
死因不明	si	ming	unknown cause of death
死对头	si	tou	arch-enemy; sworn enemy
死循环	si	huan	endless loop
死心塌地	si	di	to be hell-bent on; dead set on sth; unswerving
死心眼儿	si	r	stubborn; obstinate; having a one-track mind
死心踏地	si	di	see 死心塌地[si3 xin1 ta1 di4]
死文字	si	zi	dead language; indecipherable script
死无对证	si	zheng	the dead cannot testify (idiom); dead men tell no tales
死无葬身之地	si	di	to die without a burial site; to die a pauper; a tragic end
死有余辜	si	gu	(idiom) to be so evil that even death would be insufficient punishment
死气沉沉	si	chen	dead atmosphere; lifeless; spiritless
死气白赖	si	lai	variant of 死乞白賴|死乞白赖[si3 qi5 bai2 lai4]
死海古卷	si	juan	Dead Sea Scrolls
死海经卷	si	juan	Dead Sea Scrolls
死火山	si	shan	extinct volcano
死灰复燃	si	ran	lit. ashes burn once more (idiom); fig. sb lost returns to have influence; sth malevolent returns to haunt one
死猪不怕开水烫	si	tang	(lit.) a dead pig doesn't fear scalding water (saying); (fig.) a person who has nothing more to lose will go to any lengths, regardless of the consequences
死皮赖脸	si	lian	brazen faced (idiom); shameless
死结难解	si	jie	enigmatic knot hard to untie (idiom); thorny problem; intractable difficulty
死缠烂打	si	da	(coll.) to pester; to harass
死翘翘	si	qiao	to die; to drop dead
死而不僵	si	jiang	dead but showing no signs of rigor mortis; to die hard (idiom); to die yet not be vanquished (idiom)
死而后已	si	yi	until death puts an end (idiom); one's whole life; unto one's dying day
死而复活	si	huo	to come back to life (after death)
死而复生	si	sheng	(idiom) to come back to life (after death)
死而无悔	si	hui	to die without regret (idiom, from Analects)
死胡同	si	tong	dead end; blind alley
死藤水	si	shui	ayahuasca
死要面子	si	zi	to regard face as all-important; to consider loss of face unthinkable
死要面子活受罪	si	zui	to go through hell for the sake of keeping up appearances (idiom)
死记硬背	si	bei	to learn by rote; to mechanically memorize
死路一条	si	tiao	(idiom) dead end; road to ruin
死里逃生	si	sheng	mortal danger, escape alive (idiom); a narrow escape; to survive by the skin of one's teeth
死难者	si	zhe	victim of an accident; casualty; martyr for one's country
死顽固	si	gu	very stubborn; very stubborn person; die-hard
死马当活马医	si	yi	lit. to give medicine to a dead horse (idiom); fig. to keep trying everything in a desperate situation
歼击机	jian	ji	fighter plane
殊不知	shu	zhi	little imagined; scarcely realized
殊域周咨录	shu	lu	Ming dynasty record (1574) of exploration and foreign relations
殊深轸念	shu	nian	extreme solicitude (idiom); expressing the deepest condolences; to feel deeply concerned
殊途同归	shu	gui	different routes to the same destination (idiom); fig. different means of achieve the same end
残余物	can	wu	litter; trash
残兵败将	can	jiang	ruined army, defeated general (idiom); scattered remnants
残冬腊月	can	yue	final days of the lunar year
残垣断壁	can	bi	see 斷壁殘垣|断壁残垣[duan4 bi4 can2 yuan2]
残垣败壁	can	bi	see 斷壁頹垣|断壁颓垣[duan4 bi4 tui2 yuan2]
残奥会	can	hui	Paralympic Games
残年短景	can	jing	at the end of the year (idiom)
残次品	can	pin	defective goods
残民害物	can	wu	to harm people and damage property (idiom)
残渣余孽	can	nie	evil elements who have escaped eradication
残留物	can	wu	remnant; residue; material left over
残疾人	can	ren	disabled person
残疾儿	can	er	a child with a birth defect; a deformed child
残羹剩饭	can	fan	leftovers from a meal; fig. remnants handed down from others
残花败柳	can	liu	broken flower, withered willow (idiom); fig. fallen woman
残茶剩饭	can	fan	see 殘羹剩飯|残羹剩饭[can2 geng1 sheng4 fan4]
残酷无情	can	qing	cruel and unfeeling (idiom)
殒身不恤	yun	xu	to die without regrets (idiom); to sacrifice oneself without hesitation
殓尸房	lian	fang	morgue
殖民主义	zhi	yi	colonialism
殖民地	zhi	di	colony
殖民者	zhi	zhe	colonizer; colonist; settler
殚精极虑	dan	lv	to exhaust one's thoughts and ingenuity (idiom); to think sth through thoroughly; to rack one's brains; to leave no stone unturned
殚精竭虑	dan	lv	to exhaust one's thoughts and ingenuity (idiom); to think sth through thoroughly; to rack one's brains; to leave no stone unturned
殡仪员	bin	yuan	funeral worker; mortician; undertaker
殡仪馆	bin	guan	a funeral home; an undertaker's
殴打罪	ou	zui	assault and battery (law)
段子手	duan	shou	sb who crafts and delivers witty, humorous or satirical short stories, jokes or punchlines; a wit; a humorist
段玉裁	duan	cai	Duan Yucai (1735-1815), author of Commentary on Shuowen Jiezi (1815) 說文解字註|说文解字注[Shuo1 wen2 Jie3 zi4 Zhu4]
段祺瑞	duan	rui	Duan Qirui (1864-1936), commander of Beiyang Army under Yuan Shikai, then politician and powerful warlord
段荃法	duan	fa	Duan Quanfa (1939-2010), Chinese writer
段错误	duan	wu	segmentation fault
殷弘绪	yin	xu	François Xavier d'Entrecolles (1664-1741), French Jesuit missionary to Kangxi court
殷忧启圣	yin	sheng	deep suffering can lead to enlightenment (idiom); storms make oaks take deeper root
殷都区	yin	qu	Yindu, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
毁三观	hui	guan	(Internet slang) (of a situation, video clip etc) to make one think "wtf!"
毁于一旦	hui	dan	(idiom) ruined in a short time (esp. of sth that took a long time or great effort to achieve)
毁家纾难	hui	nan	to sacrifice one's wealth to save the state (idiom)
毁灭性	hui	xing	destructive; devastating
毁誉参半	hui	ban	(idiom) to receive both praise and criticism; to get mixed reviews
毅然决然	yi	ran	without hesitation; resolutely; firmly
母乳代用品	mu	pin	breast milk substitute
母乳化奶粉	mu	fen	infant formula
母乳喂养	mu	yang	breastfeeding
母亲河	mu	he	lifeline river; river regarded as the cradle of a civilization
母亲节	mu	jie	Mother's Day
母公司	mu	si	parent company
母函数	mu	shu	generating function (math.)
母夜叉	mu	cha	witch; shrew; vixen
母子垂直感染	mu	ran	mother-to-infant transmission
母权制	mu	zhi	matriarchy
母系社会	mu	hui	matrilineality
母细胞	mu	bao	(biology) mother cell; matricyte
母群体	mu	ti	(statistics) population; parent population
母老虎	mu	hu	tigress; (fig.) fierce woman; vixen
母胎单身	mu	shen	never been in a romantic relationship
母难日	mu	ri	(old) birthday
母音调和	mu	he	vowel harmony (in phonetics)
每下愈况	mei	kuang	see 每況愈下|每况愈下[mei3 kuang4 yu4 xia4]
每个人	mei	ren	everybody; everyone
每况愈下	mei	xia	to steadily deteriorate
每分每秒	mei	miao	each and every moment
每周一次	mei	ci	once a week
每年一度	mei	du	once a year (every year)
每日快报	mei	bao	Daily Express (newspaper)
每日新闻	mei	wen	Mainichi Shimbun, a Japanese daily newspaper
每日电讯报	mei	bao	Daily Telegraph (newspaper)
每日邮报	mei	bao	Daily Mail (newspaper)
每日镜报	mei	bao	Daily Mirror (newspaper)
每日限价	mei	jia	(finance) daily trading limit, the maximum allowed price fluctuation of a stock or security in a trading day
每时每刻	mei	ke	at all times; at every moment
每时每日	mei	ri	every day and every hour; hourly and daily (idiom)
每逢佳节倍思亲	mei	qin	doubly homesick for our dear ones at each festive day (from a poem by Wang Wei 王維|王维[Wang2 Wei2])
毒剂弹	du	dan	gas projectile
毒奶粉	du	fen	contaminated milk powder (milk powder adulterated with melamine in a 2008 scandal in China)
毒气弹	du	dan	poison gas shell; poison gas grenade
毒理学	du	xue	toxicology
毒瓦斯	du	si	poisonous gas; stinking fart
毒莠定	du	ding	picloram
毒蝇伞	du	san	fly Amanita or fly agaric (Amanita muscaria)
毒鸡汤	du	tang	(coll.) profit-motivated article cynically disguised as feel-good content 雞湯|鸡汤[ji1 tang1] and designed to go viral
比一比	bi	bi	to make a comparison; to engage in a contest
比上不足比下有余	bi	yu	neither the best nor the worst; not too bad; better than some
比下去	bi	qu	to defeat; to be superior to
比不上	bi	shang	can't compare with
比不了	bi	liao	cannot compare to; to be no match for
比丘尼	bi	ni	Buddhist nun (loanword from Sanskrit "bhiksuni")
比中指	bi	zhi	to give the middle finger
比亚迪	bi	di	BYD Company (company name)
比亚迪汽车	bi	che	BYD Auto, PRC car company
比亚韦斯托克	bi	ke	Białystok, city in Poland
比什凯克	bi	ke	Bishkek, capital of Kyrgyzstan
比佛利山	bi	shan	Beverly Hills
比例尺	bi	chi	scale; architect's scale; engineer's scale
比利时	bi	shi	Belgium
比利牛斯	bi	si	Pyrenees mountains
比利牛斯山	bi	shan	Pyrenees mountains
比勒费尔德	bi	de	Bielefeld (city in Germany)
比勒陀利亚	bi	ya	Pretoria, capital of South Africa
比哈尔邦	bi	bang	Bihar, state in eastern India
比喻义	bi	yi	figurative meaning (of a word)
比埃兹巴伯	bi	bo	Beelzebub
比基尼	bi	ni	(loanword) bikini
比基尼环礁	bi	jiao	Bikini Atoll in the Marshall Islands, former US nuclear test site in the Pacific
比如县	bi	xian	Biru, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
比如说	bi	shuo	for example
比威力	bi	li	yield-to-weight ratio (of a nuclear weapon)
比尔博	bi	bo	Bilbo Baggins, hero of Tolkien's The Hobbit 霍比特人
比手划脚	bi	jiao	to gesticulate; to make lively gestures (while talking); also written 比手畫腳|比手画脚
比手画脚	bi	jiao	variant of 比手劃腳|比手划脚[bi3 shou3 hua4 jiao3]
比斯开湾	bi	wan	Bay of Biscay
比方说	bi	shuo	for example; for instance
比杆赛	bi	sai	stroke play (golf)
比比皆是	bi	shi	can be found everywhere
比氏鹟莺	bi	ying	(bird species of China) Bianchi's warbler (Phylloscopus valentini)
比热容	bi	rong	(physics) specific heat capacity
比特币	bi	bi	Bitcoin
比特犬	bi	quan	pit bull (loanword)
比特纳	bi	na	(surname) Bittner or Büttner
比登天还难	bi	nan	lit. even harder than reaching the sky (idiom); fig. extremely difficult; far from an easy task
比目鱼	bi	yu	flatfish; flounder
比翼双飞	bi	fei	lit. a pair of birds flying close together (idiom); fig. two hearts beating as one; name of a sweet and sour chicken wing dish
比翼齐飞	bi	fei	to fly wing to wing (idiom); two hearts beating as one; (of a couple) inseparable
比腕力	bi	li	arm wrestling (Tw)
比色分析	bi	xi	colorimetric analysis
比萨斜塔	bi	ta	Leaning Tower of Pisa
比萨饼	bi	bing	pizza (loanword); CL:張|张[zhang1]
比赛场	bi	chang	stadium; playing field for a competition
比赛项目	bi	mu	sporting event; item on program of sports competition
比较分析	bi	xi	comparative analysis
比较文学	bi	xue	comparative literature
比较级	bi	ji	(grammar) the comparative
比较而言	bi	yan	comparatively speaking
毕业典礼	bi	li	graduation ceremony; commencement exercises
毕业生	bi	sheng	graduate
毕业设计	bi	ji	graduation project
毕业证书	bi	shu	(PRC) (since 1985) graduation certificate, which certifies that the student has graduated, but not necessarily met all requirements to be awarded a degree certificate 學位證書|学位证书[xue2 wei4 zheng4 shu1]; (1981-1985) graduation certificate, which certified that the student graduated, and, if it included a final sentence indicating a degree type, also certified that the student met all the requirements for a degree
毕其功于一役	bi	yi	to accomplish the whole task at one stroke (idiom)
毕加索	bi	suo	Picasso
毕卡索	bi	suo	Picasso (Tw)
毕宿五	bi	wu	Aldebaran or Alpha Tauri
毕尔巴鄂	bi	e	Bilbao (city in Spain)
毕尼奥夫	bi	fu	Hugo Benioff (1899-1968), Caltech seismologist
毕尼奥夫带	bi	dai	Benioff zone (geology); also called Wadati-Benioff zone
毕恭毕敬	bi	jing	reverent and respectful; extremely deferential
毕毕剥剥	bi	bo	(onom.) sound of knocking or bursting
毕节市	bi	shi	Bijie, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
毕达哥拉斯	bi	si	Pythagoras
毗湿奴	pi	nu	Vishnu (Hindu deity)
毗耶娑	pi	suo	Vyasa, Indian sage and scribe, supposed author of epic 摩訶婆羅多|摩诃婆罗多[Mo2 he1 po2 luo2 duo1] and a major figure in it
毛主义	mao	yi	Maoism
毛主席	mao	xi	Chairman Mao; Mao Zedong 毛澤東|毛泽东[Mao2 Ze2 dong1] (1893–1976), Chinese Communist leader
毛主席语录	mao	lu	Quotations from Chairman Mao Tse-tung, published 1964–1979 and widely distributed during the Cultural Revolution
毛利人	mao	ren	Maori, indigenous Polynesian people of New Zealand
毛利率	mao	lv	gross profit margin; gross margin
毛南族	mao	zu	Maonan ethnic group
毛哔叽	mao	ji	serge
毛地黄	mao	huang	common foxglove (Digitalis purpurea)
毛坯房	mao	fang	undecorated residential unit; house or apartment sold without interior finishing
毛塑像	mao	xiang	statue of Chairman Mao Zedong (1893-1976) 毛澤東|毛泽东[Mao2 Ze2 dong1]
毛子国	mao	guo	(derog.) Russia
毛孩子	mao	zi	child; kid; (slang) furry pet (such as a dog or cat)
毛手毛脚	mao	jiao	carelessly and haphazardly; to paw; to grope
毛收入	mao	ru	gross income; gross profit
毛毛的	mao	de	creeped out; unnerved; uneasy
毛毛虫	mao	chong	caterpillar
毛毛雨	mao	yu	drizzle; light rain; (fig.) mere trifle; sth that has only a weak effect
毛泽东	mao	dong	Mao Zedong (1893–1976), leader of the Chinese Communist Party 1935–1976
毛泽东主义	mao	yi	Maoism
毛泽东思想	mao	xiang	Mao Zedong Thought
毛泽东选集	mao	ji	Selected Works of Mao Zedong
毛洋槐	mao	huai	rose acacia (Robinia hispida, a false acacia)
毛玻璃	mao	li	frosted glass
毛线衣	mao	yi	sweater; woolen knitwear; wool
毛线针	mao	zhen	knitting needle
毛细孔	mao	kong	pore
毛细血管	mao	guan	capillary blood vessels
毛织物	mao	wu	woolen textiles
毛织运动衫	mao	shan	jersey
毛绒玩具	mao	ju	plush toy; cuddly toy
毛绒绒	mao	rong	fluffy; furry
毛脚渔鸮	mao	xiao	(bird species of China) Blakiston's fish owl (Bubo blakistoni)
毛腿夜鹰	mao	ying	(bird species of China) great eared nightjar (Lyncornis macrotis)
毛腿沙鸡	mao	ji	(bird species of China) Pallas's sandgrouse (Syrrhaptes paradoxus)
毛茸茸	mao	rong	hairy; downy
毛血旺	mao	wang	duck's blood and beef tripe in spicy soup
毛诞节	mao	jie	Mao Zedong’s birthday, December 26th
毛边纸	mao	zhi	fine paper made from bamboo, used for calligraphy, painting etc; also written 毛邊|毛边[mao2 bian1]
毛遂自荐	mao	jian	Mao Sui recommends himself (idiom); to offer one's services (in the style of Mao Sui offering his services to king of Chu 楚 of the Warring states)
毛邓三	mao	san	Mao Zedong Thought, Deng Xiaoping Theory & the Three Represents (abbr. for 毛澤東思想|毛泽东思想[Mao2 Ze2 dong1 Si1 xiang3] + 鄧小平理論|邓小平理论[Deng4 Xiao3 ping2 Li3 lun4] + 三個代表|三个代表[San1 ge4 Dai4 biao3])
毛酸浆	mao	jiang	husk ground-cherry; husk tomato (Physalis pubescens)
毛里塔尼亚	mao	ya	Mauritania
毛里求斯	mao	si	Mauritius
毛霉菌病	mao	bing	mucormycosis
毛骨悚然	mao	ran	to have one's hair stand on end (idiom); to feel one's blood run cold
毛鳞鱼	mao	yu	capelin
毛鸭蛋	mao	dan	balut (boiled duck egg with a partly-developed embryo, which is eaten from the shell)
毫不介意	hao	yi	to not mind (at all, a bit); to not care in the slightest
毫不客气	hao	qi	no trace of politeness; unrestrained (criticism)
毫不怀疑	hao	yi	without the slightest doubt
毫不犹豫	hao	yu	without the slightest hesitation
毫不留情	hao	qing	to show no quarter; ruthless; relentless
毫不费力	hao	li	effortless; not expending the slightest effort
毫不迟疑	hao	yi	without the slightest hesitation
毫不逊色	hao	se	not inferior in any respect
毫厘不爽	hao	shuang	not to deviate an iota (idiom); to be extremely accurate
毫发不爽	hao	shuang	not to deviate one hair's breadth (idiom); to be extremely accurate
毫发无伤	hao	shang	(idiom) unscathed; unharmed; without a scratch
毫安时	hao	shi	milliampere-hour (mAh)
毫微米	hao	mi	millimicron or one-millionth of a millimeter
毫无二致	hao	zhi	(idiom) without the slightest difference
毫无保留	hao	liu	to hold nothing back; without reservation
毫无效果	hao	guo	to no avail; achieving nothing; totally ineffective
毫无疑问	hao	wen	certainty; without a doubt
毫无逊色	hao	se	not in the least inferior (idiom)
毫米水银柱	hao	zhu	millibar (unit of pressure)
毫米汞柱	hao	zhu	millimeter of mercury; mmHg (unit of pressure)
毫米波	hao	bo	millimeter wave (radio signal)
民不聊生	min	sheng	(idiom) the people have no way to make a living (from Records of the Grand Historian 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4])
民丰县	min	xian	Niya, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
民主主义	min	yi	democracy (as an ideology)
民主主义者	min	zhe	democrat
民主党	min	dang	Democratic Party
民主党人	min	ren	Democrat (Democratic Party member or supporter)
民主化	min	hua	to convert to democracy; democratic transformation
民主墙	min	qiang	Democracy Wall, Beijing (1978–1979); bulletin boards modeled on it in some Hong Kong universities
民主建港协进联盟	min	meng	Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB), a pro-Beijing political party in Hong Kong
民主政治	min	zhi	democracy (as a system of government)
民主派	min	pai	(Hong Kong politics) the pro-democracy camp (founded 1987), aka the pan-democrats
民主进步党	min	dang	DPP (Democratic Progressive Party, Taiwan); abbr. to 民進黨|民进党
民主集中制	min	zhi	democratic centralism
民主革命	min	ming	democratic revolution; bourgeois revolution (in Marx-Leninist theory, a prelude to the proletarian revolution)
民乐县	min	xian	Minle, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
民事诉讼	min	song	common plea; civil appeal (as opposed to criminal case)
民事责任	min	ren	civil liability (law)
民以食为天	min	tian	Food is the God of the people. (idiom); People view food as the primary need.; Food first, ethical niceties second
民俗学	min	xue	folklore
民勤县	min	xian	Minqin, a county in Wuwei City 武威市[Wu3 wei1 Shi4], Gansu
民变峰起	min	qi	seething discontent (idiom); widespread popular grievances
民和县	min	xian	see 民和回族土族自治縣|民和回族土族自治县[Min2 he2 Hui2 zu2 Tu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
民和回族土族自治县	min	xian	Minhe Hui and Tu Autonomous County, in Haidong City 海東市|海东市[Hai3 dong1 Shi4], Qinghai
民国通俗演义	min	yi	Dramatized history of Republican China until 1927 by Cai Dongfan 蔡東藩|蔡东藩, and later chapters by Xu Qinfu 許廑父|许廑父
民建联	min	lian	Democratic Alliance for the Betterment and Progress of Hong Kong (DAB), a pro-Beijing political party in Hong Kong (abbr. for 民主建港協進聯盟|民主建港协进联盟[Min2 zhu3 Jian4 gang3 Xie2 jin4 Lian2 meng2])
民怨沸腾	min	teng	seething discontent (idiom); popular grievances boil over
民怨鼎沸	min	fei	seething discontent (idiom); popular grievances boil over
民意测验	min	yan	opinion poll
民意调查	min	cha	opinion poll
民政厅	min	ting	provincial department of civil affairs
民政局	min	ju	Bureau of Civil Affairs
民政部	min	bu	Ministry of Civil Affairs (MCA) of the PRC
民数记	min	ji	Book of Numbers; Fourth Book of Moses
民族主义	min	yi	nationalism; national self-determination; principle of nationalism, the first of Dr Sun Yat-sen's 孫中山|孙中山 Three Principles of the People 三民主義|三民主义 (at the time, meaning parity between China and the great powers)
民族主义情绪	min	xu	nationalist feelings; nationalist sentiment
民族团结	min	jie	national unity
民族大学	min	xue	University for Nationalities (university of ethnic studies)
民族大迁徙	min	xi	great migration of peoples
民族学	min	xue	ethnology; anthropology
民族工业	min	ye	national industry; industry run by Chinese nationals or ethnic Chinese
民族平等	min	deng	equality of ethnic groups
民族志	min	zhi	ethnography
民族杂居地区	min	qu	mixed ethnic area
民族社会主义	min	yi	national socialism; Nazism
民族自决	min	jue	self-determination
民族舞蹈	min	dao	folk dance
民族英雄	min	xiong	national hero
民权主义	min	yi	democracy; civil liberties; principle of democracy, the second of Dr Sun Yat-sen's 孫中山|孙中山 Three Principles of the People 三民主義|三民主义 (at the time, meaning widespread popular involvement in affairs of state)
民权县	min	xian	Minquan, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
民歌手	min	shou	folk singer
民法典	min	dian	civil code
民生主义	min	yi	principle of people's livelihood, the third of Dr Sun Yat-sen's 孫中山|孙中山 Three Principles of the People 三民主義|三民主义 (at the time, meaning redistribution of wealth, self-sufficiency and internal trade)
民生凋敝	min	bi	the people's livelihood is reduced to destitution (idiom); a time of famine and impoverishment
民穷财尽	min	jin	the people are impoverished, their means exhausted (idiom); to drive the nation to bankruptcy
民答那峨海	min	hai	Mindanao Sea
民粹主义	min	yi	populism
民粹派	min	pai	the Narodniks, Russian populist group in the 19th century
民脂民膏	min	gao	lit. the fat and wealth of the people (idiom); the nation's hard-won wealth (esp. as an object of unscrupulous exploitation); the people's blood, sweat and tears
民航班机	min	ji	civilian plane; commercial flight
民营企业	min	ye	privately-operated enterprise
民营化	min	hua	privatization
民贼独夫	min	fu	tyrant and oppressor of the people (idiom); traitorous dictator
民进党	min	dang	DPP (Democratic Progressive Party, Taiwan); abbr. for 民主進步黨|民主进步党
民间习俗	min	su	folk customs
民间传说	min	shuo	popular tradition; folk legend
民间故事	min	shi	folk story; folktale
民间组织	min	zhi	association; organization; humanitarian organization
民间舞	min	wu	folk dance
民间舞蹈	min	dao	folk dance
民间艺术	min	shu	folk art
民间音乐	min	yue	folk music
气不公	qi	gong	indignant
气不平	qi	ping	angry at unfairness
气不忿儿	qi	r	furious; indignant
气不过	qi	guo	so angry it's unbearable; bitter about unbearable grievances
气体扩散	qi	san	gaseous diffusion
气候变化	qi	hua	climate change
气候学	qi	xue	climatology
气候学家	qi	jia	a climatologist
气候暖化	qi	hua	climate warming
气候状况	qi	kuang	climatic conditions; atmospheric conditions
气冲冲	qi	chong	furious; enraged
气冲斗牛	qi	niu	see 氣沖牛斗|气冲牛斗[qi4 chong1 niu2 dou3]
气冲牛斗	qi	dou	(idiom) imposing and powerful; (in modern usage, esp.) extremely angry
气冲霄汉	qi	han	(idiom) dauntless; courageous; spirited
气冷式反应堆	qi	dui	gas-cooled reactor
气凝胶	qi	jiao	aerogel
气动噪声	qi	sheng	aerodynamic noise
气动开关	qi	guan	pneumatic switch
气动式	qi	shi	pneumatic
气动控制	qi	zhi	pneumatic control
气动泵	qi	beng	pneumatic pump
气动葫芦	qi	lu	pneumatic hoist pulley
气动闸	qi	zha	pneumatic brake
气势凌人	qi	ren	arrogant and overbearing
气势宏伟	qi	wei	imposing; majestic
气势汹汹	qi	xiong	aggressive; truculent; overbearing
气包子	qi	zi	quick-tempered person
气压表	qi	biao	barometer
气压计	qi	ji	barometer
气吁吁	qi	xu	to pant; to gasp for breath
气呼呼	qi	hu	panting with rage
气咻咻	qi	xiu	to pant; to gasp for breath
气哼哼	qi	heng	enraged; furious; livid
气喘吁吁	qi	xu	to pant; to gasp for breath
气喘喘	qi	chuan	breathless
气喘如牛	qi	niu	to breathe heavily like an ox (idiom); to huff and puff
气喘病	qi	bing	asthma
气垫船	qi	chuan	hovercraft
气壮山河	qi	he	magnificent; inspiring
气头上	qi	shang	(in) a fit of anger; (in) a foul mood
气宇轩昂	qi	ang	to have an imposing or impressive appearance; impressive appearance; straight and impressive looking
气定神闲	qi	xian	calm and composed (idiom)
气度恢宏	qi	hong	broad-minded; magnanimous
气急败坏	qi	huai	flustered and exasperated; utterly discomfited
气息奄奄	qi	yan	to have only a breath of life (idiom)
气昂昂	qi	ang	full of vigor; spirited; valiant
气泡布	qi	bu	bubble wrap
气泡膜	qi	mo	bubble wrap
气泡酒	qi	jiu	sparkling wine
气溶胶	qi	jiao	aerosol
气焰嚣张	qi	zhang	see 囂張氣焰|嚣张气焰[xiao1 zhang1 qi4 yan4]
气生根	qi	gen	aerial root (botany)
气管切开术	qi	shu	(medicine) tracheotomy
气管插管术	qi	shu	endotracheal intubation (medicine)
气管炎	qi	yan	bacterial tracheitis (inflammation of the windpipe, often caused by Staphylococcus aureus); henpecked (a pun on 妻子管得嚴|妻子管得严[qi1 zi5 guan3 de5 yan2] used in comic theater)
气管痉挛	qi	luan	breathing convulsions (as in asthma); tracheospasm
气象卫星	qi	xing	weather satellite
气象厅	qi	ting	meteorological office
气象台	qi	tai	meteorological office; weather forecasting office
气象学	qi	xue	meteorology
气象学家	qi	jia	meteorologist
气象局	qi	ju	weather bureau; meteorological office
气象站	qi	zhan	weather station
气象观测站	qi	zhan	weather station
气贯长虹	qi	hong	spirit reaches to the rainbow; full of noble aspiration and daring
气雾免疫	qi	yi	aerosol immunization
气雾剂	qi	ji	aerosol
气雾室	qi	shi	cloud chamber
气鸣乐器	qi	qi	aerophone (music)
气鼓鼓	qi	gu	seething; fuming
氛围编程	fen	cheng	(computing) vibe coding
氟利昂	fu	ang	freon (chemistry)
氟化氢	fu	qing	hydrofluoric acid
氟化物	fu	wu	fluoride
氟硅酸	fu	suan	fluorosilicic acid H2SiF6; fluorosilicate
氟骨病	fu	bing	see 氟骨症[fu2 gu3 zheng4]
氟骨症	fu	zheng	osteofluorosis; skeletal fluorosis
氢化氰	qing	qing	hydrocyanic acid; hydrogen cyanide
氢卤酸	qing	suan	hydrohalic acid (e.g. hydrofluoric acid HF 氫氟酸|氢氟酸[qing1 fu2 suan1], hydrochloric acid HCl 鹽酸|盐酸[yan2 suan1] etc)
氢原子	qing	zi	hydrogen atom
氢气球	qing	qiu	hydrogen balloon
氢氟烃	qing	ting	hydrofluorocarbon
氢氟酸	qing	suan	hydrofluoric acid HF
氢氧化	qing	hua	(bound form) hydroxide of ...
氢氧化物	qing	wu	a hydroxide
氢氧化钙	qing	gai	calcium hydroxide Ca(OH)2; slaked lime
氢氧化钠	qing	na	sodium hydroxide NaOH; caustic soda
氢氧化钾	qing	jia	potassium hydroxide
氢氧化铝	qing	lv	aluminum hydroxide
氢氧化镁	qing	mei	magnesium hydroxide Mg(OH)2
氢氧根	qing	gen	hydroxide radical (-OH)
氢氧根离子	qing	zi	hydroxide ion OH-
氢氧离子	qing	zi	hydroxide ion OH-
氢氯酸	qing	suan	hydrochloric acid HCl; also written 鹽酸|盐酸[yan2 suan1]
氢溴酸	qing	suan	hydrobromic acid HBr
氢能源	qing	yuan	hydrogen energy (energy derived from using hydrogen as a fuel)
氦气球	hai	qiu	helium balloon
氧乙炔	yang	que	oxyacetylene
氧乙炔炬	yang	ju	an oxyacetylene torch
氧乙炔焊	yang	han	oxyacetylene welding
氧乙炔焊炬	yang	ju	oxyacetylene torch
氧化亚铁	yang	tie	iron(II) oxide; ferrous oxide
氧化剂	yang	ji	oxidant; oxidizing agent
氧化汞	yang	gong	mercuric oxide (HgO)
氧化物	yang	wu	oxide
氧化罐	yang	guan	Hopcalite canister; Hopcalite cartridge
氧化钙	yang	gai	calcium oxide, CaO; (slang) (used as a substitute for 肏[cao4], since CaO resembles cào)
氧化铀	yang	you	uranium oxide
氧化铝	yang	lv	aluminum oxide
氧化锌	yang	xin	zinc oxide
氧化镁	yang	mei	magnesium oxide MgO
氧原子	yang	zi	oxygen atom
氧合器	yang	qi	oxygenator
氧效应	yang	ying	oxygen effect
氨吖啶	an	ding	aminoacridine or aminacrine (antiseptic and disinfectant)
氨哮素	an	su	clenbuterol
氨基比林	an	lin	aminopyrine (loanword)
氨基甲酸酯类化合物	an	wu	carbamate
氨基苯酸	an	suan	aminobenzoic acid
氨基葡糖	an	tang	glucosamine (abbr. for 氨基葡萄糖[an1 ji1 pu2 tao5 tang2])
氨基葡萄糖	an	tang	glucosamine (C6H13NO5)
氨基酸	an	suan	amino acid
氨苄青霉素	an	su	(pharmacology) ampicillin
氩弧焊	ya	han	argon arc welding; TIG welding
氪气石	ke	shi	kryptonite
氮化镓	dan	jia	gallium nitride (GaN)
氮氧化物	dan	wu	nitrogen oxide
氮芥气	dan	qi	nitrogen mustard
氯丁橡胶	lv	jiao	neoprene
氯乙烯	lv	xi	vinyl chloride (chloroethene C2H3Cl)
氯化氢	lv	qing	hydrogen chloride HCl
氯化氰	lv	qing	cyanogen chloride CNCl
氯化物	lv	wu	chloride
氯化苦	lv	ku	chloropicrin
氯化钙	lv	gai	calcium chloride
氯化钠	lv	na	sodium chloride NaCl; common salt
氯化钾	lv	jia	potassium chloride
氯化铝	lv	lv	aluminum chloride
氯化铵	lv	an	ammonium chloride
氯化银	lv	yin	silver chloride AgCl
氯化锌	lv	xin	zinc chloride
氯单质	lv	zhi	molecular chlorine
氯安酮	lv	tong	see 氯胺酮[lu:4 an4 tong2]; ketamine
氯甲烷	lv	wan	methyl chloride CH3Cl
氯痤疮	lv	chuang	chloracne
氯磷定	lv	ding	pralidoxime chloride
氯胺酮	lv	tong	ketamine (C13H16ClNO)
氯酸钠	lv	na	sodium chlorate NaClO3
氯酸钾	lv	jia	potassium chlorate
氯霉素	lv	su	(pharmacology) chloramphenicol
氰化物	qing	wu	cyanide
氰化钠	qing	na	sodium cyanide NaCN
氰化钾	qing	jia	potassium cyanide KCN
氰基细菌	qing	jun	cyanobacteria
氰氨化钙	qing	gai	calcium cyanamide
氰溴甲苯	qing	ben	cyanobenzyl bromide
氰酸盐	qing	yan	cyanate
水上乐园	shui	yuan	water park
水上摩托	shui	tuo	jet ski
水上摩托车	shui	che	jet ski
水上电单车	shui	che	see 水上摩托車|水上摩托车[shui3 shang4 mo2 tuo1 che1]
水上芭蕾	shui	lei	synchronized swimming
水上运动	shui	dong	water sports; aquatic motion; movement over water
水上飞机	shui	ji	seaplane
水上飞板	shui	ban	flyboard
水中捞月	shui	yue	(lit.) to scoop the moon out of the water (idiom); (fig.) a hopeless endeavor
水中毒	shui	du	water intoxication; water poisoning
水产业	shui	ye	aquaculture
水产养殖	shui	zhi	aquaculture
水产品	shui	pin	aquatic products (including fish, crabs, seaweed etc)
水产展	shui	zhan	seafood show (trade fair)
水仙花	shui	hua	daffodil; narcissus
水俣病	shui	bing	Minamata disease (neurological disease caused by mercury poisoning due to industrial pollution in Japan, first identified in 1956)
水准仪	shui	yi	level (device to determine horizontal); spirit level; surveyor's level
水凝胶	shui	jiao	hydrogel
水刑逼供	shui	gong	water-boarding, interrogation technique used by CIA
水利家	shui	jia	water manager; hydraulic engineer
水利工程	shui	cheng	hydraulic engineering
水利部	shui	bu	Ministry of Water Resources (PRC)
水到渠成	shui	cheng	lit. where water flows, a canal is formed (idiom); fig. when conditions are right, success will follow naturally
水力压裂	shui	lie	hydraulic fracturing; fracking
水力发电	shui	dian	hydroelectricity
水力发电站	shui	zhan	hydroelectric power plant
水力学	shui	xue	hydraulics
水力鼓风	shui	feng	hydraulic bellows; water-driven ventilation (for metal smelting furnace)
水务局	shui	ju	(municipal) water authority
水原市	shui	shi	Suweon City, capital of Gyeonggi province 京畿道[Jing1 ji1 dao4], South Korea
水合物	shui	wu	hydrate; hydrated compound
水土不服	shui	fu	not acclimatized
水土保持	shui	chi	soil conservation
水城区	shui	qu	Shuicheng, a district of Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
水培法	shui	fa	hydroponics
水墨画	shui	hua	ink and wash painting
水处理	shui	li	water treatment
水天一色	shui	se	water and sky merge in one color (idiom)
水富市	shui	shi	Shuifu, a county-level city in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
水帘洞	shui	dong	cave with a waterfall at its mouth
水平仪	shui	yi	level (device to determine horizontal); spirit level; surveyor's level
水平尺	shui	chi	spirit level
水平尾翼	shui	yi	(aviation) tailplane; horizontal stabilizer
水平轴	shui	zhou	horizontal shaft; horizontal axis (math.)
水平面	shui	mian	horizontal plane; level surface; water level
水底相机	shui	ji	underwater camera
水弹枪	shui	qiang	gel blaster; gel gun
水彩画	shui	hua	watercolor; aquarelle
水彩笔	shui	bi	colored markers
水律蛇	shui	she	Oriental rat snake (Ptyas mucosus)
水性杨花	shui	hua	fickle (woman)
水手服	shui	fu	Japanese sailor-style schoolgirl uniform; sailor fuku
水族箱	shui	xiang	aquarium; fish tank
水族馆	shui	guan	aquarium (open to the public)
水晶宫	shui	gong	The Crystal Palace
水晶球	shui	qiu	crystal ball
水晶饺	shui	jiao	crystal dumpling, a type of dumpling popular in southern China and Taiwan, named for its translucent, slightly chewy wrapper made with tapioca starch
水暖工	shui	gong	plumber; heating engineer
水曜日	shui	ri	Wednesday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
水杨酸	shui	suan	salicylic acid
水果刀	shui	dao	paring knife; fruit knife; CL:把[ba3]
水果捞	shui	lao	fruit medley in coconut milk – a chilled dessert consisting of assorted fresh fruits served in sweetened coconut milk, yogurt or fruit syrup
水果酒	shui	jiu	fruit wine
水横枝	shui	zhi	cape jasmine (Gardenia jasminoides), esp. grown as bonsai
水母体	shui	ti	jellyfish; medusa
水污染	shui	ran	water pollution
水汪汪	shui	wang	watery; waterlogged (soil); limpid
水泄不通	shui	tong	(lit.) not one drop can trickle through (idiom); (fig.) (of crowds, traffic etc) impenetrable
水波炉	shui	lu	superheated steam oven
水泥地	shui	di	concrete-paved surface; concrete floor
水浅养不住大鱼	shui	yu	lit. shallow waters cannot harbor big fish (idiom); fig. ambitious, talented people cannot reach their full potential in a small organization
水浒传	shui	zhuan	Water Margin or Outlaws of the Marsh by Shi Nai'an 施耐庵[Shi1 Nai4 an1], one of the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature
水浒全传	shui	zhuan	Water Margin or Outlaws of the Marsh by Shi Nai'an 施耐庵, one of the Four Classic Novels of Chinese literature; also written 水滸傳|水浒传
水浒后传	shui	zhuan	Water Margin Sequel, by Chen Chen 陳忱|陈忱[Chen2 Chen2]
水涨船高	shui	gao	the tide rises, the boat floats (idiom); fig. to change with the overall trend; to develop according to the situation
水淋淋	shui	lin	dripping wet
水深火热	shui	re	deep water and scorching fire; abyss of suffering (idiom)
水清无鱼	shui	yu	lit. water that is too clean holds no fish (idiom); fig. one who is too severe has no friends
水温表	shui	biao	engine temperature gauge; coolant temperature gauge
水溶性	shui	xing	soluble (in water); solubility
水滴石穿	shui	chuan	dripping water penetrates the stone (idiom); constant perseverance yields success; You can achieve your aim if you try hard without giving up.; Persistent effort overcomes any difficulty.
水滴鱼	shui	yu	blobfish (Psychrolutes marcidus)
水漉漉	shui	lu	dripping wet
水火不容	shui	rong	completely incompatible; lit. incompatible as fire and water
水火无情	shui	qing	fire and flood have no mercy (idiom)
水灵灵	shui	ling	see 水靈|水灵[shui3 ling2]
水炮车	shui	che	water cannon vehicle, common name for specialized crowd management vehicle 人群管理特別用途車|人群管理特别用途车[ren2 qun2 guan3 li3 te4 bie2 yong4 tu2 che1]
水烟壶	shui	hu	bong; water pipe (for tobacco etc); hookah
水烟管	shui	guan	bong; water pipe (for tobacco etc); hookah
水烟袋	shui	dai	water bong; water pipe; hookah
水煎包	shui	bao	pan-fried bun (covered and steamed after pan-frying), usually with pork or vegetable filling
水煮蛋	shui	dan	boiled egg
水煮鱼	shui	yu	Sichuan poached sliced fish in hot chili oil
水牛儿	shui	r	(dialect) snail
水猴子	shui	zi	mythical monster that preys on swimmers
水玻璃	shui	li	(chemistry) water glass
水球场	shui	chang	water polo pool
水瓶座	shui	zuo	Aquarius (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
水田芥	shui	jie	watercress
水电工	shui	gong	plumbing and electrical work; tradesman who does both plumbing and electrical work
水电站	shui	zhan	hydroelectric power plant
水磨沟	shui	gou	see 水磨溝區|水磨沟区[Shui3 mo4 gou1 Qu1]
水磨沟区	shui	qu	Shuimogou, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
水磨石	shui	shi	terrazzo
水立方	shui	fang	Water Cube, nickname of Beijing National Aquatics Center 北京國家游泳中心|北京国家游泳中心, swimming venue of Beijing 2008 Olympic Games
水管工	shui	gong	plumber
水管工人	shui	ren	plumber
水管面	shui	mian	tube pasta (e.g. penne, rigatoni, ziti); macaroni
水翼船	shui	chuan	hydrofoil
水老鸦	shui	ya	common name for cormorant
水耕法	shui	fa	hydroponics
水能源	shui	yuan	hydroelectric power
水能载舟亦能覆舟	shui	zhou	lit. water may keep the boat afloat but may also sink it (proverb); fig. the people can support a regime or overturn it; if sth is used properly, one can benefit from it, otherwise it can do harm
水菖蒲	shui	pu	Acorus calamus; sweet sedge or sweet flag
水萝卜	shui	bo	small red radish
水落归槽	shui	cao	spilt water returns to the trough (idiom); fig. people remember where they belong
水落石出	shui	chu	(lit.) as the water recedes, the rocks appear (idiom); (fig.) the truth comes to light
水葫芦	shui	lu	water hyacinth (Pontederia crassipes)
水蒲苇莺	shui	ying	(bird species of China) sedge warbler (Acrocephalus schoenobaenus)
水蒸气	shui	qi	vapor
水蕹菜	shui	cai	water spinach or ong choy (Ipomoea aquatica), used as a vegetable in south China and southeast Asia
水虎鱼	shui	yu	piranha (fish)
水蛇座	shui	zuo	Hydrus (constellation)
水蛇腰	shui	yao	slender and supple waist; lithe body; feminine pose
水蛭素	shui	su	hirudin
水蜜桃	shui	tao	honey peach (juicy sweet peach variety)
水螅体	shui	ti	sessile polyp; sea anemone
水行侠	shui	xia	Aquaman, DC comic book superhero (Tw)
水质污染	shui	ran	water pollution
水资源	shui	yuan	water resource
水银灯	shui	deng	mercury-vapor lamp
水门事件	shui	jian	Watergate scandal
水门汀	shui	ting	cement (Shanghainese) (loanword)
水陆两用	shui	yong	amphibious (vehicle)
水陆交通	shui	tong	water and land transport
水陆师	shui	shi	army and navy (in Qing times)
水障碍	shui	ai	water hazard (golf)
水饺儿	shui	r	erhua variant of 水餃|水饺[shui3 jiao3]
水鹁鸪	shui	gu	turtle dove or similar bird; oriental turtle dove (Streptopelia orientalis)
水龙卷	shui	juan	waterspout (meteorology)
水龙头	shui	tou	faucet; tap
水龙带	shui	dai	layflat industrial hose; fire hose
永不生锈的螺丝钉	yong	ding	a "screw that never rusts" – metaphor used in CCP propaganda to praise loyal, selfless contributors, famously applied to model worker Lei Feng 雷鋒|雷锋[Lei2 Feng1]
永丰县	yong	xian	Yongfeng, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
永久冻土	yong	tu	permafrost
永久和平	yong	ping	lasting peace; enduring peace
永久居民	yong	min	permanent resident
永久居留权	yong	quan	permanent residency
永久居留证	yong	zheng	permanent residency permit
永久性	yong	xing	permanent
永久磁铁	yong	tie	permanent magnet
永久虚电路	yong	lu	Permanent Virtual Circuit; PVC
永乐大典	yong	dian	the Yongle Great Encyclopedia (1408)
永仁县	yong	xian	Yongren, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
永修县	yong	xian	Yongxiu, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
永兴县	yong	xian	Yongxing, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
永冻土	yong	tu	permafrost
永动机	yong	ji	perpetual motion machine
永吉县	yong	xian	Yongji, a county in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
永和县	yong	xian	Yonghe, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
永和市	yong	shi	Yonghe or Yungho city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
永善县	yong	xian	Yongshan, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
永嘉县	yong	xian	Yongjia, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
永嘉郡	yong	jun	Yongjia prefecture in Zhejiang
永垂不朽	yong	xiu	eternal glory; will never be forgotten
永城市	yong	shi	Yongcheng, a county-level city in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
永宁县	yong	xian	Yongning, a county in Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
永安市	yong	shi	Yong'an, a county-level city in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
永定区	yong	qu	Yongding, a district of Zhangjiajie City 張家界市|张家界市[Zhang1 jia1 jie4 Shi4], Hunan; Yongding, a district of Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
永定河	yong	he	Yongding River, the largest river flowing through Beijing
永定门	yong	men	Yongdingmen, front gate of the outer section of Beijing's old city wall, torn down in the 1950s and reconstructed in 2005
永寿县	yong	xian	Yongshou, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
永川区	yong	qu	Yongchuan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
永州市	yong	shi	Yongzhou, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
永平县	yong	xian	Yongping, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
永年区	yong	qu	Yongnian, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
永康区	yong	qu	Yongkang, a district of Tainan City 臺南市|台南市[Tai2 nan2 Shi4], Taiwan
永康市	yong	shi	Yongkang, a county-level city in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
永德县	yong	xian	Yongde, a county in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
永志不忘	yong	wang	never to be forgotten
永新县	yong	xian	Yongxin, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
永无宁日	yong	ri	(in such circumstances) there will be no peace; one can never breathe easy
永无止境	yong	jing	(idiom) without end; never-ending
永昌县	yong	xian	Yongchang, a county in Jinchang City 金昌市[Jin1 chang1 Shi4], Gansu
永春县	yong	xian	Yongchun, a county in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
永永远远	yong	yuan	for ever and ever
永泰县	yong	xian	Yongtai, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
永济市	yong	shi	Yongji, a county-level city in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
永清县	yong	xian	Yongqing, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
永登县	yong	xian	Yongdeng, a county in Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
永磁体	yong	ti	permanent magnet
永福县	yong	xian	Yongfu, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
永续城市	yong	shi	sustainable city (Tw)
永胜县	yong	xian	Yongsheng, a county in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
永诀式	yong	shi	funeral
永贞内禅	yong	shan	Yongzhen abdication of 805
永贞革新	yong	xin	Yongzhen Reform, Tang dynasty failed reform movement of 805 led by Wang Shuwen 王叔文[Wang2 Shu1 wen2]
永靖县	yong	xian	Yongjing, a county in Linxia Hui Autonomous Prefecture 臨夏回族自治州|临夏回族自治州[Lin2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
永顺县	yong	xian	Yongshun, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
求之不得	qiu	de	lit. seek but fail to get (idiom); fig. exactly what one’s been looking for
求亲靠友	qiu	you	to rely on the help of relatives and friends
求人不如求己	qiu	ji	if you want sth done well, do it yourself (idiom)
求仁得仁	qiu	ren	lit. to seek virtue and acquire it (idiom); fig. to have one's wish fulfilled
求全责备	qiu	bei	to demand perfection (idiom)
求助于人	qiu	ren	to call upon others for help
求同存异	qiu	yi	(idiom) to put aside differences and work together; to seek common ground and cooperate
求好心切	qiu	qie	to demand the highest standards of sb (or oneself) (idiom); to strive to achieve the best possible results; to be a perfectionist
求情告饶	qiu	rao	to beg for forgiveness (idiom)
求爷爷告奶奶	qiu	nai	lit. to beg grandpa and call on grandma (idiom); fig. to go about begging for help
求生意志	qiu	zhi	will to live; will to survive
求田问舍	qiu	she	lit. to be interested exclusively in the acquisition of estate (idiom); fig. to have no lofty aspirations in life
求知欲	qiu	yu	desire for knowledge
求职信	qiu	xin	cover letter; job application
求职者	qiu	zhe	job applicant
求贤若渴	qiu	ke	(idiom) to eagerly seek talented people
求道于盲	qiu	mang	see 問道於盲|问道于盲[wen4 dao4 yu2 mang2]
求锤得锤	qiu	chui	(neologism c. 2017) (slang) to demand proof of what one believes to be an unfounded accusation only to have irrefutable evidence duly supplied
汇业财经集团	hui	tuan	Delta Asia Financial Group (Macau)
汇业银行	hui	hang	Banco Delta Asia S.A.R.L., Macau
汇丰银行	hui	hang	Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation (HSBC)
汇出行	hui	hang	remitting bank
汇川区	hui	qu	Huichuan, a district of Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
汇总表	hui	biao	summary table
汇流环	hui	huan	slip-ring; rotary electrical interface; collector ring
汇编语言	hui	yan	assembly language
汉中市	han	shi	Hanzhong, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
汉他病毒	han	du	(Tw) (loanword) hantavirus
汉元帝	han	di	Yuan Emperor, reign name of Han Dynasty emperor Liu Shi 劉奭|刘奭[Liu2 Shi4], (74-33 BC), reigned 48-33 BC
汉南区	han	qu	Hannan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
汉台区	han	qu	Hantai, a district of Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
汉四郡	han	jun	four Han commanderies in north Korea 108 BC-c. 300 AD
汉坦病毒	han	du	(loanword) hantavirus
汉城特别市	han	shi	Hanseong Special Metropolitan City, old name for Seoul, capital of Korea
汉堡包	han	bao	(loanword) hamburger
汉堡王	han	wang	Burger King (fast food restaurant)
汉字查字法	han	fa	look-up method for Chinese characters
汉学家	han	jia	sinologist; scholar of Chinese
汉学系	han	xi	institute of Sinology; faculty of Sinology
汉宣帝	han	di	Emperor Xuan (91-48 BC) of the Former Han Dynasty, reigned 74-48 BC
汉密尔顿	han	dun	Hamilton (name); Hamilton, capital of Bermuda
汉寿县	han	xian	Hanshou, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
汉尼拔	han	ba	Hannibal (name); Hannibal Barca (247-183 BC), Carthaginian general
汉川市	han	shi	Hanchuan, a county-level city in Xiaogan City 孝感市[Xiao4 gan3 Shi4], Hubei
汉拿山	han	shan	Hallasan Mountain or Mount Halla, highest mountain in South Korea
汉文帝	han	di	Emperor Wen of Han (202-157 BC), fourth Han emperor, personal name Liu Heng 劉恆|刘恒[Liu2 Heng2], reigned 180-157 BC
汉文帝刘恒	han	heng	Liu Heng (202-157 BC), the fourth Han emperor Han Wendi, reigned 180-157 BC
汉明帝	han	di	Emperor Ming of Han (28-75), Western Han Dynasty Emperor 58-75
汉武帝	han	di	Emperor Wu of the Han dynasty (141-87 BC)
汉民族	han	zu	Han ethnic group
汉沽区	han	qu	Hangu former district of Tianjin, now part of Binhai subprovincial district 濱海新區|滨海新区[Bin1 hai3 xin1 qu1]
汉源县	han	xian	Hanyuan, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
汉滨区	han	qu	Hanbin, a district of Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
汉灵帝	han	di	Emperor Ling of Han (156-189), reigned from 168 to 189
汉献帝	han	di	Emperor Xian of Han (181-234), the final Han emperor, set up by Dong Zhuo 董卓, reigned 189-220, forced to abdicate 220 by Cao Pi 曹丕
汉白玉	han	yu	white marble; a type of white marble used for building and sculpting
汉英互译	han	yi	Chinese and English two-way translation
汉萨同盟	han	meng	Hanseatic League
汉藏语系	han	xi	Sino-Tibetan language family
汉语大字典	han	dian	Hanyu Da Zidian, one of the most comprehensive Chinese character dictionaries with 54,678 (and later 60,370) entries, first published between 1986-1990
汉语大词典	han	dian	Hanyu Da Cidian, the largest Chinese dictionary, with over 375,000 word entries, first published 1986-1994
汉语拼音	han	yin	Hanyu Pinyin, the romanization system used in the PRC since the 1960s
汉语水平考试	han	shi	HSK (Chinese Proficiency Test)
汉诺威	han	wei	Hanover
汉贼不两立	han	li	lit. Shu Han 蜀漢|蜀汉[Shu3 Han4] and Cao Wei 曹魏[Cao2 Wei4] cannot coexist (idiom); fig. two enemies cannot live under the same sky; (former KMT slogan against CCP) "gentlemen and thieves cannot coexist"
汉阳区	han	qu	Hanyang, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
汉阴县	han	xian	Hanyin, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
汉高祖	han	zu	posthumous name of the first Han emperor Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦 (256 or 247-195 BC), reigned 202-195 BC
汐止市	xi	shi	Xizhi or Hsichih city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
汕头大学	shan	xue	Shantou University
汕头市	shan	shi	Shantou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
汕尾市	shan	shi	Shanwei, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
汗如雨下	han	xia	sweating like rain (idiom); to perspire profusely; sweating like a pig
汗毛孔	han	kong	sweat pore
汗津津	han	jin	sweaty
汗流浃背	han	bei	to sweat profusely (idiom); drenched in sweat
汗牛充栋	han	dong	lit. enough books to make a pack-ox sweat or to fill a house to the rafters (idiom); fig. many books
汗珠子	han	zi	beads of sweat
汗背心	han	xin	tank top; sleeveless undershirt
汗腾格里峰	han	feng	Khan Tengri or Mt Hantengri on the border between Xinjiang and Kazakhstan
汗血宝马	han	ma	Ferghana horse
汗血马	han	ma	(in ancient times) Ferghana horse; (later) fine horse
汗褂儿	han	r	undershirt
汗褟儿	han	r	undershirt (dialect)
汗马功劳	han	lao	war exploits; (fig.) heroic contribution
汝南县	ru	xian	Runan, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
汝城县	ru	xian	Rucheng, a county in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
汝州市	ru	shi	Ruzhou, a county-level city in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
汝阳县	ru	xian	Ruyang, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
汞溴红	gong	hong	merbromin; mercurochrome
江八点	jiang	dian	Jiang Zemin's 江澤民|江泽民[Jiang1 Ze2 min2] eight propositions on developing relations between the two sides of the Taiwan Straits, presented in a 1995 speech
江北区	jiang	qu	Jiangbei, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
江华县	jiang	xian	see 江華瑤族自治縣|江华瑶族自治县[Jiang1 hua2 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
江华瑶族自治县	jiang	xian	Jianghua Yao Autonomous County, in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
江南区	jiang	qu	Jiangnan, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
江南四大才子	jiang	zi	Four great southern talents of the Ming, namely: Tang Bohu 唐伯虎, Zhu Zhishan 祝枝山, Wen Zhengming 文徵明|文征明 and Xu Zhenqing 徐禎卿|徐祯卿
江南大学	jiang	xue	Jiangnan University (in Jiangsu Province)
江南水乡	jiang	xiang	patchwork of waterways, esp. in Jiangsu
江南省	jiang	sheng	name of Qing dynasty province covering south Jiangsu, south Anhui and north Zhejiang provinces, with capital at Nanjing
江原道	jiang	dao	Gangwon Province of Korea during Joseon Dynasty; Kangwon province of North Korea; Gangwon province in northeast South Korea, capital Chuncheon 春川[Chun1 chuan1]
江口县	jiang	xian	Jiangkou, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
江城区	jiang	qu	Jiangcheng, a district of Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
江城县	jiang	xian	see 江城哈尼族彝族自治縣|江城哈尼族彝族自治县[Jiang1 cheng2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
江夏区	jiang	qu	Jiangxia, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
江孜县	jiang	xian	Gyantse, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
江宁区	jiang	qu	Jiangning, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
江安县	jiang	xian	Jiang'an, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
江山市	jiang	shi	Jiangshan, a county-level city in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
江山易改本性难移	jiang	yi	it is easier to change mountains and rivers than to alter one's character (idiom); you can't change who you are; Can the leopard change his spots?
江山易改禀性难移	jiang	yi	rivers and mountains are easy to change, man's character much harder
江岸区	jiang	qu	Jiang'an, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
江川区	jiang	qu	Jiangchuan, a district of Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
江州区	jiang	qu	Jiangzhou, a district of Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
江永县	jiang	xian	Jiangyong, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
江汉区	jiang	qu	Jianghan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
江河日下	jiang	xia	rivers pour away by the day (idiom); going from bad to worse; deteriorating day by day
江河湖海	jiang	hai	rivers, lakes and oceans; bodies of water
江油市	jiang	shi	Jiangyou, a county-level city in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
江泽民	jiang	min	Jiang Zemin (1926–2022), politician, president of PRC 1993–2003
江洋大盗	jiang	dao	(idiom) infamous pirate; (by extension) notorious bandit or robber
江津区	jiang	qu	Jiangjin, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
江浦县	jiang	xian	Jiangpu county, old name of Pukou district 浦口區|浦口区[Pu3 kou3 qu1] of Nanjing, Jiangsu
江海区	jiang	qu	Jianghai, a district of Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
江淮官话	jiang	hua	Jianghuai Mandarin
江湖一点诀	jiang	jue	special technique; trick of the trade; knack
江湖医生	jiang	sheng	unlicensed doctor; quack; back-alley or itinerant practitioner
江湖艺人	jiang	ren	itinerant entertainer
江湖骗子	jiang	zi	swindler; itinerant con-man
江源区	jiang	qu	Jiangyuan, a district of Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
江珧柱	jiang	zhu	(seafood) adductor muscle of a scallop or pen shell
江米酒	jiang	jiu	glutinous rice wine; fermented glutinous rice
江苏省	jiang	sheng	Jiangsu Province, capital Nanjing 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4] (short name 蘇|苏[Su1])
江西省	jiang	sheng	Jiangxi Province, capital Nanchang 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4] (short name 灨|赣[Gan4])
江达县	jiang	xian	Jomda, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
江郎才尽	jiang	jin	Jiang Yan has exhausted his talent (idiom); fig. to have used up one's creative powers; to have writer's block
江都区	jiang	qu	Jiangdu, a district of Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
江门市	jiang	shi	Jiangmen, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
江阳区	jiang	qu	Jiangyang, a district of Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
江阴市	jiang	shi	Jiangyin, a county-level city in Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
江陵县	jiang	xian	Jiangling, a county in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
池中物	chi	wu	person of no particular talent
池州市	chi	shi	Chizhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
污七八糟	wu	zao	variant of 烏七八糟|乌七八糟[wu1 qi1 ba1 zao1]
污名化	wu	hua	to stigmatize
污染区	wu	qu	contaminated area
污染物	wu	wu	pollutant
污水坑	wu	keng	cesspit
污水处理厂	wu	chang	water treatment plant
污水管	wu	guan	sewage pipe
污言秽语	wu	yu	(idiom) filthy speech; obscenities
汤力水	tang	shui	tonic water
汤加群岛	tang	dao	Tonga
汤加里罗	tang	luo	Tongariro, volcanic area on North Island, New Zealand
汤博乐	tang	le	Tumblr (microblogging and social networking website)
汤原县	tang	xian	Tangyuan, a county in Jiamusi City 佳木斯市[Jia1 mu4 si1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
汤姆孙	tang	sun	Thompson or Thomson (name)
汤姆斯杯	tang	bei	Thomas Cup (international badminton team competition)
汤姆索亚历险记	tang	ji	Adventures of Tom Sawyer by Mark Twain
汤姆逊	tang	xun	Thomson (name)
汤婆子	tang	zi	hot-water bottle
汤川秀树	tang	shu	YUKAWA Hideki (1907-1988), Japanese theoretical physicist and Nobel laureate
汤旺县	tang	xian	Tangwang, a county in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
汤显祖	tang	zu	Tang Xianzu (1550-1616), Ming poet and dramatist, author of The Peony Pavilion 牡丹亭[Mu3 dan5 Ting2]
汤普森	tang	sen	(name) Thompson
汤武革命	tang	ming	the Tang and Wu Revolts: the overthrow (c. 1600 BC) of the Xia Dynasty by the first king, Tang 商湯|商汤[Shang1 Tang1], of the Shang Dynasty, and the overthrow (c. 1046 BC) of the Shang Dynasty by the Zhou Dynasty founder, King Wu 周武王[Zhou1 Wu3 wang2]
汤玉麟	tang	lin	Tang Yulin (1871-1937), minor warlord in northeast China, sometime governor of Chengde 承德, mostly poor in battle but very successful at accumulating personal wealth
汤阴县	tang	xian	Tangyin, a county in Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
汤饼筵	tang	yan	dinner party given on the third day after the birth of a baby (traditional)
汨罗市	mi	shi	Miluo, a county-level city in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
汨罗江	mi	jiang	Miluo River in Hunan province, tributary of the Xiang River 湘江[Xiang1 Jiang1], flows into Dongting Lake 洞庭湖[Dong4 ting2 Hu2]
汪东城	wang	cheng	Jiro Wang (1981-), Taiwanese singer and actor
汪啸风	wang	feng	Wang Xiaofeng (1944-), fourth governor of Hainan
汪星人	wang	ren	dog (Internet slang)
汪清县	wang	xian	Wangqing, a county in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
汪精卫	wang	wei	Wang Jingwei (1883–1944), Chinese politician who later collaborated with Japan during World War II
汪道涵	wang	han	Wang Daohan (1915-2005), former president of the Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits
汰旧换新	tai	xin	out with the old and in with the new (idiom)
汶上县	wen	xian	Wenshang, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
汶川县	wen	xian	Wenchuan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
汶川地震	wen	zhen	Great Sichuan Earthquake (2008)
汶川大地震	wen	zhen	Great Sichuan Earthquake (2008)
汽化器	qi	qi	carburetor; vaporizer
汽油机	qi	ji	gasoline engine
汽车厂	qi	chang	car factory
汽车号牌	qi	pai	vehicle registration plate; license plate
汽车展览会	qi	hui	car show; automobile expo
汽车戏院	qi	yuan	drive-in theater
汽车技工	qi	gong	auto mechanic
汽车旅馆	qi	guan	motel
汽车炸弹	qi	dan	car bomb
汽车站	qi	zhan	bus stop; bus station
汽轮发电机	qi	ji	steam turbine electric generator
汽轮机	qi	ji	steam turbine
汾西县	fen	xian	Fenxi, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
汾阳市	fen	shi	Fenyang, a county-level city in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
沁人心肺	qin	fei	see 沁人心脾[qin4 ren2 xin1 pi2]
沁人心脾	qin	pi	(lit.) to penetrate deeply into the heart (idiom); (fig.) to gladden the heart; to be refreshing
沁人心腑	qin	fu	see 沁人心脾[qin4 ren2 xin1 pi2]
沁人肺腑	qin	fu	see 沁人心脾[qin4 ren2 xin1 pi2]
沁入心脾	qin	pi	see 沁人心脾[qin4 ren2 xin1 pi2]
沁水县	qin	xian	Qinshui, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
沁源县	qin	xian	Qinyuan, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
沁阳市	qin	shi	Qinyang, a county-level city in Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
沂南县	yi	xian	Yinan, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
沂水县	yi	xian	Yishui, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
沂源县	yi	xian	Yiyuan, a county in Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
沃克斯豪尔	wo	er	Vauxhall (English car brand and city)
沃尔夫	wo	fu	Wolf, Woolf (name)
沃尔夫奖	wo	jiang	the Wolf Prize (for science and arts)
沃尔夫斯堡	wo	bao	Wolfsburg
沃尔沃	wo	wo	Volvo (Swedish car company)
沃尔玛	wo	ma	Walmart (retailer)
沃尔芬森	wo	sen	Wolfson, Wulfsohn etc (name)
沃特森	wo	sen	Watson (name)
沃罗涅日	wo	ri	Voronezh, city in the southwest of European Russia
沃达丰	wo	feng	Vodafone (telephone company)
沅江九肋	yuan	lei	rare talent; lit. legendary nine-ribbed turtle of Yuan river
沅江市	yuan	shi	Yuanjiang, a county-level city in Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
沅陵县	yuan	xian	Yuanling, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
沆瀣一气	hang	qi	to act in collusion (idiom); in cahoots with; villains will look after one another
沈丘县	shen	xian	Shenqiu, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
沈从文	shen	wen	Shen Congwen (1902-1988), novelist
沈北新区	shen	qu	Shenbei New District, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
沈国放	shen	fang	Shen Guofang (1952-), PRC assistant minister of foreign affairs (2003-2005)
沈河区	shen	qu	Shenhe, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
沈葆桢	shen	zhen	Shen Baozhen (1820-1879), Qing Minister of the Navy, founded Fuzhou Naval College 船政學堂|船政学堂[Chuan2 zheng4 Xue2 tang2] in 1866
沈阳市	shen	shi	Shenyang, sub-provincial city and capital of Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
沈阳故宫	shen	gong	Mukden Palace, aka Shenyang Imperial Palace, the main imperial palace during the early years of the Qing dynasty (1625-1644), a secondary palace in subsequent years, now a museum
沉不住气	chen	qi	to lose one's cool; to get impatient; unable to remain calm
沉住气	chen	qi	to keep cool; to stay calm
沉得住气	chen	qi	to stay calm; to keep one's composure
沉没成本	chen	ben	sunk cost (economics)
沉浸式	chen	shi	immersive
沉淀物	chen	wu	precipitate; sediment
沉湎酒色	chen	se	to wallow in alcohol and sex (idiom); overindulgence in wine and women; an incorrigible drunkard and lecher
沉甸甸	chen	dian	heavy
沉着应战	chen	zhan	to remain calm in the face of adversity (idiom)
沉积作用	chen	yong	sedimentation (geology)
沉积岩	chen	yan	sedimentary rock (geology)
沉积带	chen	dai	sedimentary belt (geology)
沉积物	chen	wu	sediment
沉船事故	chen	gu	a shipwreck; a sinking
沉重打击	chen	ji	to hit hard
沉静寡言	chen	yan	see 沉默寡言[chen2 mo4 gua3 yan2]
沉鱼落雁	chen	yan	variant of 沉魚落雁|沉鱼落雁[chen2 yu2 luo4 yan4]
沉默寡言	chen	yan	habitually silent (idiom); reticent; uncommunicative
沉默是金	chen	jin	silence is golden (idiom)
沐川县	mu	xian	Muchuan, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
沐浴乳	mu	ru	body wash (liquid soap); shower gel
沐浴油	mu	you	bath oil
沐浴球	mu	qiu	shower puff; bath sponge; bath ball (containing aromas or salts)
沐浴用品	mu	pin	bath product
沐浴花	mu	hua	shower puff; shower sponge
沐浴露	mu	lu	shower gel
沐猴而冠	mu	guan	lit. a monkey wearing a hat (idiom); fig. worthless person in imposing attire
沐雨栉风	mu	feng	to work unceasingly regardless of the weather (idiom)
沙丁胺醇	sha	chun	salbutamol (a beta 2 agonist used in treating asthma); also known as albuterol, proventil and ventolin
沙丁鱼	sha	yu	sardine (loanword)
沙丘鹤	sha	he	(bird species of China) sandhill crane (Antigone canadensis)
沙乌地阿拉伯	sha	bo	Saudi Arabia (Tw)
沙依巴克	sha	ke	see 沙依巴克區|沙依巴克区[Sha1 yi1 ba1 ke4 Qu1]
沙依巴克区	sha	qu	Saybag, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
沙其马	sha	ma	variant of 沙琪瑪|沙琪玛[sha1 qi2 ma3]
沙利度胺	sha	an	thalidomide
沙加缅度	sha	duo	Sacramento
沙县区	sha	qu	Shaxian, a district of Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
沙发客	sha	ke	couchsurfing; couchsurfer
沙发床	sha	chuang	sofa bed; sleeper sofa
沙和尚	sha	shang	Sha Wujing
沙地话	sha	hua	see 啟海話|启海话[Qi3 hai3 hua4]
沙坑杆	sha	gan	sand wedge (golf)
沙坡头	sha	tou	see 沙坡頭區|沙坡头区[Sha1 po1 tou2 Qu1]
沙坡头区	sha	qu	Shapotou, a district of Zhongwei City 中衛市|中卫市[Zhong1 wei4 Shi4], Ningxia
沙坪坝	sha	ba	see 沙坪壩區|沙坪坝区[Sha1 ping2 ba4 Qu1]
沙坪坝区	sha	qu	Shapingba, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
沙头角	sha	jiao	Sha Tau Kok (town in Hong Kong)
沙姆沙伊赫	sha	he	Sharm el-Sheikh, city in Egypt
沙威玛	sha	ma	shawarma, Middle Eastern sandwich wrap (loanword)
沙家浜	sha	bang	"Sha Family's Creek", a Beijing opera classified as model theater 樣板戲|样板戏[yang4 ban3 xi4]
沙尘暴	sha	bao	sand and dust storm
沙市区	sha	qu	Shashi, a district of Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
沙悟净	sha	jing	Sha Wujing, aka Friar Sand or Sandy, one of the three disciples of the Buddhist monk Tang Sanzang in "Journey to the West" 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4]
沙拉甩干器	sha	qi	salad spinner
沙拉酱	sha	jiang	salad dressing
沙捞越	sha	yue	Sarawak, state of Malaysia in northwest Borneo 婆羅洲|婆罗洲
沙文主义	sha	yi	chauvinism
沙朗牛排	sha	pai	sirloin steak
沙河口	sha	kou	see 沙河口區|沙河口区[Sha1 he2 kou3 Qu1]
沙河口区	sha	qu	Shahekou, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
沙河市	sha	shi	Shahe, a county-level city in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
沙法维王朝	sha	chao	Persian Safavid Dynasty 1501-1722
沙洋县	sha	xian	Shayang, a county in Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
沙湾区	sha	qu	Shawan, a district of Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
沙湾市	sha	shi	Shawan, a county-level city in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
沙滩排球	sha	qiu	beach volleyball
沙滩鞋	sha	xie	beach shoes; wetsuit booties
沙漠之狐	sha	hu	Desert Fox
沙漠化	sha	hua	desertification
沙爹酱	sha	jiang	satay sauce
沙特阿拉伯	sha	bo	Saudi Arabia
沙特阿拉伯人	sha	ren	a Saudi; Saudi Arabian person
沙琪玛	sha	ma	sachima, sweet (Manchu) pastry made of fried strips of dough coated with syrup, pressed together, then cut into blocks
沙瓦玛	sha	ma	shawarma, Middle Eastern sandwich wrap (loanword)
沙皇俄国	sha	guo	Tsarist Russia
沙皮狗	sha	gou	Chinese shar-pei (dog breed)
沙盘推演	sha	yan	to plan a military mission on a sand table (idiom); to rehearse a planned action or activity; to conduct a dry run
沙祖康	sha	kang	Sha Zukang (1947-), Chinese diplomat
沙色朱雀	sha	que	(bird species of China) pale rosefinch (Carpodacus stoliczkae)
沙袋鼠	sha	shu	swamp wallaby (Wallabia bicolor)
沙西米	sha	mi	sashimi (loanword)
沙里亚	sha	ya	sharia (Islamic law) (loanword)
沙门氏菌	sha	jun	Salmonella
沙门菌	sha	jun	salmonella
沙雅县	sha	xian	Xayar, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
没上没下	mei	xia	no respect for seniors; lacking in manners
没事儿	mei	r	to have spare time; free from work; it's not important
没亲没故	mei	gu	without relatives or friends
没人住	mei	zhu	unoccupied
没人味	mei	wei	to be lacking in human character
没人味儿	mei	r	erhua variant of 沒人味|没人味[mei2 ren2 wei4]
没什么	mei	me	it doesn't matter; it's nothing; never mind; think nothing of it; it's my pleasure; you're welcome
没六儿	mei	r	variant of 沒溜兒|没溜儿[mei2 liu4 r5]
没关系	mei	xi	it doesn't matter
没准儿	mei	r	erhua variant of 沒準|没准[mei2 zhun3]
没准头	mei	tou	(coll.) unreliable
没分寸	mei	cun	inappropriate; bad-mannered
没办法	mei	fa	there is nothing to be done; one can't do anything about it
没劲儿	mei	r	erhua variant of 沒勁|没劲[mei2 jin4]
没吃没穿	mei	chuan	to be without food or clothing (idiom); to be very poor
没多久	mei	jiu	before long; soon after
没大没小	mei	xiao	impolite; cheeky; impudent
没天理	mei	li	(old) unprincipled; incorrect; (modern) unnatural; against reason; incredible
没头没脸	mei	lian	lit. without head, without face (idiom); fig. frenzily; haphazardly
没头苍蝇	mei	ying	see 無頭蒼蠅|无头苍蝇[wu2 tou2 cang1 ying5]
没奈何	mo	he	to have no alternative; to be helpless
没好气	mei	qi	to be in a bad mood
没完没了	mei	liao	without end; incessantly; on and on
没得挑剔	mei	ti	excellent in every respect; flawless
没得说	mei	shuo	really good; excellent
没心没肺	mei	fei	simple-minded; thoughtless; heartless
没心眼	mei	yan	outspoken; artless; tactless
没想到	mei	dao	didn't expect
没意思	mei	si	boring; of no interest
没搞头	mei	tou	(coll.) not worth bothering with; pointless
没日没夜	mei	ye	day and night; regardless of the time of day or night
没有不透风的墙	mei	qiang	(idiom) no secret can be kept forever
没有事	mei	shi	not a bit; nothing is up; nothing alarming is happening
没有什么	mei	me	it is nothing; there's nothing ... about it
没有什么不可能	mei	neng	nothing is impossible; there's nothing impossible about it
没有关系	mei	xi	see 沒關係|没关系[mei2 guan1 xi5]
没有意义	mei	yi	not to have any meaning; meaningless
没有意思	mei	si	boring; of no interest
没有止尽	mei	jin	endless
没有法	mei	fa	at a loss; unable to do anything about it; to have no choice
没有规矩不成方圆	mei	yuan	without rules, nothing can be done (idiom); one must follow some rules
没有规矩何以成方圆	mei	yuan	without rules, how can anything be done (idiom); one must follow some rules
没来由	mei	you	without any reason; for no reason
没水准	mei	zhun	lacking class; boorish; poor quality
没水平	mei	ping	disgraceful; poor quality; substandard
没没无闻	mo	wen	variant of 默默無聞|默默无闻[mo4 mo4 wu2 wen2]
没法儿	mei	r	(coll.) can't do anything about it; (coll.) there's no way that ...; it's simply not credible that ...; (coll.) couldn't be (better) (i.e. simply wonderful)
没溜儿	mei	r	(dialect) silly
没的说	mei	shuo	see 沒說的|没说的[mei2 shuo1 de5]
没眼看	mei	kan	(coll.) can't bear to look at it; hideous; appalling
没礼貌	mei	mao	impolite; rude; bad-mannered
没空儿	mei	r	having no time
没精打彩	mei	cai	variant of 沒精打采|没精打采[mei2 jing1 da3 cai3]
没精打采	mei	cai	listless; dispirited; washed out
没经验	mei	yan	inexperienced
没羞没臊	mei	sao	shameless
没脸没皮	mei	pi	shameless; brazen
没苦硬吃	mei	chi	(neologism, attested by 2024) to stubbornly endure hardships that need not be endured; to go out of one's way to make things difficult for oneself
没说的	mei	de	(coll.) nothing to pick on; really good; (coll.) nothing to discuss; settled matter; no problem
没谁了	mei	le	(coll.) nobody can beat that; extraordinary; remarkable
没谱儿	mei	r	erhua variant of 沒譜|没谱[mei2 pu3]
没起子	mei	zi	(dialect) (of a person) useless; pathetic; spineless
没长眼	mei	yan	see 沒長眼睛|没长眼睛[mei2 zhang3 yan3 jing5]
没长眼睛	mei	jing	(coll.) are you blind or something?; look where you're going
没门儿	mei	r	no way; impossible
没问题	mei	ti	no problem
没齿不忘	mo	wang	see 沒齒難忘|没齿难忘[mo4 chi3 nan2 wang4]
没齿难忘	mo	wang	hard to forget even after one's teeth fall out (idiom); to remember a benefactor as long as one lives; undying gratitude
沥水架	li	jia	dish rack
沥青铀矿	li	kuang	pitchblende (uranium ore)
沦肌浃髓	lun	sui	lit. penetrate to the marrow (idiom); deeply affected; moved to the core
沦陷区	lun	qu	enemy-held territory
沧州市	cang	shi	Cangzhou, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
沧桑感	cang	gan	a sense of having been through good times and bad; a weathered and worn look
沧浪亭	cang	ting	Canglang Pavilion in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
沧海一粟	cang	su	(lit.) one grain floating on the ocean (idiom); (fig.) a drop in the ocean
沧海桑田	cang	tian	lit. the blue sea turned into mulberry fields (idiom); fig. the transformations of the world
沧海遗珠	cang	zhu	undiscovered talent (idiom)
沧源佤族自治县	cang	xian	Cangyuan Va Autonomous County, in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
沧源县	cang	xian	see 滄源佤族自治縣|沧源佤族自治县[Cang1 yuan2 Wa3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
沧龙科	cang	ke	(zoology) family Mosasauridae
沪宁线	hu	xian	Shanghai-Nanjing line
沪宁铁路	hu	lu	Shanghai-Nanjing Railway, a.k.a. Huning Railway
沪深港	hu	gang	abbr. for Shanghai 上海[Shang4 hai3], Shenzhen 深圳[Shen1 zhen4] and Hong Kong 香港[Xiang1 gang3]
沪综指	hu	zhi	Shanghai composite index (stock market index)
沭阳县	shu	xian	Shuyang, a county in Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
沱沱河	tuo	he	source of Changjiang or Yangtze river
河东区	he	qu	Hedong district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]; Hedong district of Linyi city 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 shi4], Shandong
河东狮	he	shi	shrew; see also 河東獅吼|河东狮吼[He2 dong1 shi1 hou3]
河东狮吼	he	hou	lit. the lioness from Hedong roars (idiom); fig. refers to a shrewish wife or a henpecked husband
河北区	he	qu	Hebei district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
河北工业大学	he	xue	Hebei University of Technology
河北日报	he	bao	Hebei Daily, newspaper founded in 1949
河北梆子	he	zi	Hebei opera
河北省	he	sheng	Hebei Province, capital Shijiazhuang 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4] (short name 冀[Ji4])
河北科技大学	he	xue	Hebei University of Science and Technology
河南县	he	xian	see 河南蒙古族自治縣|河南蒙古族自治县[He2 nan2 Meng2 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
河南省	he	sheng	Henan Province, capital Zhengzhou 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 豫[Yu4])
河南蒙古族自治县	he	xian	Henan Mongol Autonomous County, in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
河卵石	he	shi	pebble
河口区	he	qu	Hekou, a district of Dongying City 東營市|东营市[Dong1 ying2 Shi4], Shandong
河口县	he	xian	see 河口瑤族自治縣|河口瑶族自治县[He2 kou3 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
河口瑶族自治县	he	xian	Hekou Yao Autonomous County, in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
河外星云	he	yun	extragalactic nebula
河外星系	he	xi	extragalactic star system; galaxy (not including our Galaxy)
河姆渡	he	du	Hemudu neolithic archaeological site near Ningbo in Zhejiang, going back to c. 5000 BC
河姆渡遗址	he	zhi	Hemudu neolithic archaeological site near Ningbo 長江|长江 in Zhejiang, going back to c. 5000 BC
河心岛	he	dao	river island
河曲县	he	xian	Hequ, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
河水不犯井水	he	shui	see 井水不犯河水[jing3 shui3 bu4 fan4 he2 shui3]
河池市	he	shi	Hechi, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
河洛人	he	ren	Hoklo people, southern Chinese people of Taiwan
河津市	he	shi	Hejin, a county-level city in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
河清海晏	he	yan	see 海晏河清[hai3 yan4 he2 qing1]
河源市	he	shi	Heyuan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
河漫滩	he	tan	floodplain
河盲症	he	zheng	river blindness; onchocerciasis
河西区	he	qu	Hexi district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
河西堡	he	pu	Hexipu, a town in Yongchang County 永昌縣|永昌县[Yong3 chang1 Xian4], Jinchang 金昌[Jin1 chang1], Gansu
河西走廊	he	lang	Hexi Corridor (or Gansu Corridor), a string of oases running the length of Gansu, forming part of the Northern Silk Road
河豚毒素	he	su	tetrodotoxin (TTX)
河间市	he	shi	Hejian, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
河鼓二	he	er	Altair (star)
沸沸扬扬	fei	yang	bubbling and gurgling; hubbubing; abuzz
油乎乎	you	hu	greasy; oily
油光光	you	guang	glossy; gleaming; shiny (due to greasiness)
油光可鉴	you	jian	lit. oily and shiny to the point of reflecting (idiom); lustrous
油光水滑	you	hua	sleek; shiny and smooth
油光漆	you	qi	varnish
油加利	you	li	variant of 尤加利[you2 jia1 li4]
油嘴滑舌	you	she	glib; oily-mouthed and smooth talking
油尖旺	you	wang	Yau Tsim Mong district of Kowloon, Hong Kong
油底壳	you	ke	oil sump
油料作物	you	wu	oil crop (rape, peanut, soy, sesame etc); oil-bearing crop
油橄榄	you	lan	olive (Olea europaea)
油气田	you	tian	oilfields and gasfields
油汪汪	you	wang	dripping with oil
油泼扯面	you	mian	broad, belt-shaped noodles, popular in Shaanxi, also known as 𰻞𰻞麵|𰻝𰻝面[biang2 biang2 mian4]
油泼面	you	mian	see 油潑扯麵|油泼扯面[you2 po1 che3 mian4]
油灰刀	you	dao	putty knife
油炸圈饼	you	bing	doughnut
油炸鬼	you	gui	(coll.) youtiao (deep-fried breadstick)
油烟机	you	ji	range hood; exhaust hood
油然而生	you	sheng	arising involuntarily (idiom); spontaneous; to spring up unbidden (of emotion)
油盐不进	you	jin	(idiom) impervious to persuasion; unreceptive; impossible to get through to
油盐酱醋	you	cu	(lit.) oil, salt, soy sauce and vinegar (idiom); (fig.) life's daily necessities
油罐车	you	che	oil tanker truck; fuel tanker
油老虎	you	hu	gas guzzler
油腔滑调	you	diao	flippant and insincere (piece of writing or speech); glib-tongued; oily
油菜籽	you	zi	oilseed rape (Brassica campestris); rapeseed; coleseed
油菜花	you	hua	rapeseed flower; canola flower
油豆腐	you	fu	fried tofu (cubes)
油页岩	you	yan	oil shale
油麦菜	you	cai	Indian lettuce
治丝益棼	zhi	fen	lit. try to straighten out silk threads only to tangle them further (idiom); fig. to try to help but end up making things worse
治国理政	zhi	zheng	to manage state affairs; to govern the country
治外法权	zhi	quan	diplomatic immunity; (history) extraterritoriality, the rights (under unequal treaties) of a foreigner to live in China outside Chinese jurisdiction
治多县	zhi	xian	Zhidoi, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
治大国若烹小鲜	zhi	xian	ruling a large nation is like cooking a small delicacy (idiom); effective government requires minimal intervention
治愈系	zhi	xi	uplifting; rejuvenating; heartwarming
治未病	zhi	bing	preventative treatment (medicine)
治标不治本	zhi	ben	to treat the symptoms but not the root cause
治疗师	zhi	shi	therapist
治疗法	zhi	fa	therapy
治病救人	zhi	ren	to treat the disease to save the patient; to criticize a person in order to help him
治装费	zhi	fei	expenses for 治裝|治装[zhi4 zhuang1]
沼泽地	zhao	di	marsh; swamp; everglade
沼泽地带	zhao	dai	marsh; swamp; everglade
沼泽大尾莺	zhao	ying	(bird species of China) striated grassbird (Megalurus palustris)
沼泽山雀	zhao	que	(bird species of China) marsh tit (Poecile palustris)
沽名钓誉	gu	yu	to angle for fame (idiom); to fish for compliments
沽源县	gu	xian	Guyuan, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
沾亲带故	zhan	gu	(idiom) to have some sort of connection (personal or familial etc)
沾化区	zhan	qu	Zhanhua, a district of Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
沾染世俗	zhan	su	to be corrupted by the ways of the world (idiom)
沾沾自喜	zhan	xi	immeasurably self-satisfied
沾益区	zhan	qu	Zhanyi, a district of Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
沾花惹草	zhan	cao	to fondle the flowers and trample the grass (idiom); to womanize; to frequent brothels
沿岸地区	yan	qu	coastal area
沿条儿	yan	r	tape seam (in dressmaking); tape trim
沿河县	yan	xian	see 沿河土家族自治縣|沿河土家族自治县[Yan2 he2 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
沿河土家族自治县	yan	xian	Yanhe Tujia Autonomous County, in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
沿海地区	yan	qu	coastland; coastal areas
沿滩区	yan	qu	Yantan, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
沿边儿	yan	r	to trim (border with braid, tape etc)
泄欲工具	xie	ju	sexual object
泄殖肛孔	xie	kong	(zoology) cloaca
泄殖腔	xie	qiang	(zoology) cloaca; cloacal cavity
泄洪闸	xie	zha	sluice-gate; flood discharge valve
泄漏天机	xie	ji	to divulge the will of heaven (idiom); to leak a secret; to let the cat out of the bag
泄私愤	xie	fen	to vent personal spite; to act out of malice (esp. of crime)
泄露天机	xie	ji	to divulge the will of heaven (idiom); to leak a secret; to let the cat out of the bag
泉山区	quan	qu	Quanshan, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泉州市	quan	shi	Quanzhou, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
泉港区	quan	qu	Quangang, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
泉石膏肓	quan	huang	lit. mountain springs and rocks in one's heart (idiom); a deep love of mountain scenery
泊头市	bo	shi	Botou, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
泊松分布	bo	bu	Poisson distribution (in statistics)
泌尿器	mi	qi	urinary tract; urinary organs
泌尿外科	mi	ke	urology
泌尿生殖道	mi	dao	(anatomy) urinogenital tract
泌尿系统	mi	tong	urinary system
泌阳县	bi	xian	Biyang, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
法令纹	fa	wen	nasolabial fold; smile lines; laugh lines
法克鱿	fa	you	(Internet slang) (loanword) fuck you
法兰克	fa	ke	the Franks (Germanic people who arrived in Europe from 600 AD and took over France)
法兰克林	fa	lin	Franklin (name); Benjamin Franklin (1706-1790)
法兰克福	fa	fu	Frankfurt, Germany
法兰克福学派	fa	pai	Frankfurt School
法兰克福汇报	fa	bao	Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung
法兰克福证券交易所	fa	suo	Frankfurt Stock Exchange (FSE)
法兰德斯	fa	si	Flanders, region (state) of Belgium 比利時|比利时[Bi3 li4 shi2]
法兰斯	fa	si	France (phonetic transliteration)
法兰绒	fa	rong	flannel (loanword); Taiwan pr. [fa4 lan2 rong2]
法兰西	fa	xi	France
法兰西体育场	fa	chang	Stade de France
法兰西斯	fa	si	Francis (name)
法兹鲁拉	fa	la	Maulana Fazlullah, Pakistan Taleban leader
法利赛人	fa	ren	Pharisee
法制日报	fa	bao	Legal Daily, newspaper published by PRC Ministry of Justice
法制晚报	fa	bao	Legal Evening News, a Beijing-based legal affairs newspaper launched in 2004 and shut down in 2019
法勒斯	fa	si	Perez (son of Judah)
法医学	fa	xue	forensic medicine
法华经	fa	jing	The Lotus Sutra
法压壶	fa	hu	French press; press pot
法向力	fa	li	normal force (physics)
法向量	fa	liang	(math.) normal vector
法国人	fa	ren	Frenchman; French person
法国号	fa	hao	French horn
法国大革命	fa	ming	French Revolution (1789-1799)
法国梧桐	fa	tong	plane tree (Platanus x acerifolia)
法国百合	fa	he	artichoke
法国航空	fa	kong	Air France
法国航空公司	fa	si	Air France
法国长棍	fa	gun	baguette
法国革命	fa	ming	French Revolution (1789)
法塔赫	fa	he	Fatah, Palestinian organization
法外之地	fa	di	lawless area
法学博士	fa	shi	Doctor of Laws; Legum Doctor
法学士	fa	shi	Bachelor of Laws; Legum Baccalaureus
法学家	fa	jia	jurist; member of the pre-Han legalist school
法学院	fa	yuan	law school
法定人数	fa	shu	quorum
法定代表人	fa	ren	(law) legal representative of a corporation (e.g. chairman of the board of a company, principal of a school etc)
法定货币	fa	bi	fiat currency
法尔卡什	fa	shi	Farkas (Hungarian name)
法属圭亚那	fa	na	French Guiana
法属波利尼西亚	fa	ya	French Polynesia
法库县	fa	xian	Faku, a county in Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
法式沙拉酱	fa	jiang	French dressing
法式酸奶油	fa	you	crème fraîche
法律制裁	fa	cai	legal sanction; prescribed punishment; punishable by law
法律约束力	fa	li	legal force (i.e. binding in law)
法律责任	fa	ren	legal responsibility; liability
法拉利	fa	li	Ferrari, Italian luxury sports car manufacturer
法拉盛	fa	sheng	Flushing Chinatown, a predominantly Chinese and Korean neighborhood of Queens, New York City
法拉第	fa	di	Faraday (name); Michael Faraday (1791-1867), British experimental physicist prominent in the development of electricity
法拉第笼	fa	long	(physics) Faraday cage
法新社	fa	she	Agence France Presse; AFP news agency
法源寺	fa	si	Fayuan or Source of the Law temple in Beijing
法特瓦	fa	wa	(loanword) fatwa
法相宗	fa	zong	Yogācāra school of Buddhism; Dharma-character school of Buddhism
法网恢恢疏而不漏	fa	lou	large though its mesh may be, no criminal can slip through the wide net of justice
法网难逃	fa	tao	it is hard to escape the net of justice (idiom)
法罗群岛	fa	dao	Faroe Islands
法耶德	fa	de	(name) Fayed; Mohamed Al-Fayed (1929–2023), Egyptian business magnate
法蒂玛	fa	ma	Fatimah (name)
法西斯	fa	si	fascist (loanword)
法西斯主义	fa	yi	fascism
法赫德	fa	de	King Fahd of Saudi Arabia
法轮功	fa	gong	Falun Gong (Chinese spiritual movement founded in 1992, regarded as a cult by the PRC government)
法轮大法	fa	fa	another name for 法輪功|法轮功[Fa3 lun2 gong1]
法轮常转	fa	zhuan	(Buddhism) may the Dharma wheel turn forever; may the Buddhist teaching continue to spread
法院裁决	fa	jue	court ruling
法隆寺	fa	si	Hōryūji, complex of Buddhist temples near Nara 奈良, Japan, dating back to the Asuka period 飛鳥時代|飞鸟时代 (c. 600)
法马古斯塔	fa	ta	Famagusta (Ammochostos), Cyprus
法鲁克	fa	ke	Farouk of Egypt (1920-1965), king of Egypt 1936-1952
泗水县	si	xian	Sishui, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
泗洪县	si	xian	Sihong, a county in Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泗阳县	si	xian	Siyang, a county in Suqian City 宿遷市|宿迁市[Su4 qian1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泛代数	fan	shu	universal algebra
泛光灯	fan	deng	floodlight
泛函分析	fan	xi	(math.) functional analysis
泛大洋	fan	yang	Panthalassis (geology)
泛大陆	fan	lu	Pangea (geology)
泛定方程	fan	cheng	universal differential equation
泛得林	fan	lin	(Tw) ventolin, aka salbutamol, an asthma drug
泛性恋	fan	lian	pansexuality
泛民主派	fan	pai	pan-Democratic alliance (Hong Kong)
泛泛之交	fan	jiao	nodding acquaintance; slight familiarity
泛泛而谈	fan	tan	to speak in general terms
泛滥成灾	fan	zai	lit. to flood (idiom); fig. rampant; in plague proportions
泛珠三角	fan	jiao	Pan-Pearl River delta; The nine provinces of Southern China around Guangzhou and the Pearl River delta; South China
泛珠江三角	fan	jiao	the Pan-Pearl river delta (economic zone including the 5 provinces around Guangzhou and Hong Kong)
泛神论	fan	lun	pantheism, theological theory equating God with the Universe
泛自然神论	fan	lun	pandeism, theological theory that God created the Universe and became one with it
泡打粉	pao	fen	baking powder
泡沫塑料	pao	liao	styrofoam
泡沫经济	pao	ji	bubble economy
泡泡口香糖	pao	tang	bubble-gum
泡泡果	pao	guo	pawpaw (Asimina triloba)
泡泡浴	pao	yu	bubble bath
泡泡浴露	pao	lu	bubble bath lotion
泡泡糖	pao	tang	bubble gum
泡泡纱	pao	sha	seersucker (cotton cloth with pattern of dimples)
泡泡袜	pao	wa	loose socks; baggy socks
泡温泉	pao	quan	to soak in a spa or hot spring
泡病号	pao	hao	to dilly-dally on the pretence of being ill; to malinger
泡罩塔	pao	ta	distillation tower; bubble tower; plate column
泡腾片	pao	pian	effervescent tablet
泡芙人	pao	ren	(coll.) skinny fat person (person who is MONW: metabolically obese normal weight)
泡花碱	pao	jian	sodium silicate
泡菜国	pao	guo	(slang) South Korea
泡菜球	pao	qiu	pickleball
泡蘑菇	pao	gu	to procrastinate; to shilly-shally and waste time
波丽士	bo	shi	police (loanword) (Tw)
波义耳	bo	er	Boyle (name); Robert Boyle (1627-91), British and Irish scientist and pioneer chemist
波什格伦	bo	lun	Porsgrunn (city in Telemark, Norway)
波光粼粼	bo	lin	(idiom) (of water) shimmering with ripples; glistening
波兰斯基	bo	ji	Polanski (name)
波兰语	bo	yu	Polish (language)
波兹南	bo	nan	Poznan (city in Poland)
波兹坦	bo	tan	Potsdam, Germany
波兹曼	bo	man	Ludwig Boltzmann (1844-1906), Austrian physicist and philosopher
波函数	bo	shu	wave function (in quantum mechanics)
波利尼西亚	bo	ya	Polynesia
波动力学	bo	xue	wave mechanics (physics)
波动性	bo	xing	fluctuation
波哥大	bo	da	Bogota, capital of Colombia
波塞冬	bo	dong	Poseidon, god of the sea in Greek mythology
波士尼亚	bo	ya	Bosnia (Tw)
波士顿	bo	dun	Boston, capital of Massachusetts
波士顿大学	bo	xue	Boston University
波士顿红袜	bo	wa	Boston Red Sox (baseball) team
波多马克河	bo	he	see 波托馬克河|波托马克河[Bo1 tuo1 ma3 ke4 He2]
波多黎各	bo	ge	Puerto Rico, self-governing unincorporated territory of the United States
波密县	bo	xian	Bomê, a county in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
波尔卡	bo	ka	polka (dance) (loanword)
波尔多	bo	duo	Bordeaux
波尔多液	bo	ye	Bordeaux mixture
波尔布特	bo	te	Pol Pot (1925-1998), Cambodian communist leader
波希米亚	bo	ya	variant of 波西米亞|波西米亚[Bo1 xi1 mi3 ya4]
波带片	bo	pian	zone plate
波弗特海	bo	hai	Beaufort Sea (off Alaska, Yukon and Northwest Territory)
波德戈里察	bo	cha	Podgorica, capital of Montenegro
波德申	bo	shen	Port Dickson (holiday destination in Malaysia)
波德里查	bo	cha	Podgorica, capital of Montenegro (Tw)
波恩大学	bo	xue	University of Bonn
波托马克河	bo	he	Potomac River
波拉波拉岛	bo	dao	Bora Bora, island of the Society Islands group in French Polynesia
波拿巴	bo	ba	Bonaparte (name); Napoleon Bonaparte (1769-1821), Emperor of France 1804-1815
波提乏	bo	fa	Potiphar, the captain of the pharaoh's guard (in the account of Joseph in the Book of Genesis)
波斑鸨	bo	bao	(bird species of China) MacQueen's bustard (Chlamydotis macqueenii)
波斯尼亚	bo	ya	Bosnia
波斯尼亚语	bo	yu	Bosnian (language)
波斯教	bo	jiao	Zoroastrianism
波斯普鲁斯	bo	si	Bosphorus
波斯普鲁斯海峡	bo	xia	the Bosphorus (strait)
波斯湾	bo	wan	Persian Gulf
波斯猫	bo	mao	Persian (cat)
波斯语	bo	yu	Persian (language); Farsi
波方程	bo	cheng	wave equation (math. physics)
波普艺术	bo	shu	pop art (loanword)
波札那	bo	na	(Tw) Botswana
波来古	bo	gu	Pleiku, Vietnam
波森莓	bo	mei	boysenberry (hybrid of raspberry and blackberry)
波比跳	bo	tiao	burpee (loanword)
波比运动	bo	dong	burpee (loanword)
波江座	bo	zuo	Eridanus (constellation)
波波头	bo	tou	bob (hairstyle)
波洛涅斯	bo	si	(name) Polonius; Shakespearean character, father of Ophelia, accidentally killed by Hamlet
波浪号	bo	hao	tilde ( ~ )
波浪鼓	bo	gu	variant of 撥浪鼓|拨浪鼓[bo1 lang5 gu3]
波涛汹涌	bo	yong	waves surging forth; roaring sea
波澜壮阔	bo	kuo	surging forward with great momentum; unfolding on a magnificent scale
波澜老成	bo	cheng	splendid and powerful (of story); majestic; awesome
波澜起伏	bo	fu	one climax follows another (of thrilling story)
波特兰市	bo	shi	Portland (city)
波特率	bo	lv	baud
波特菇	bo	gu	portobello mushroom
波特贝勒菇	bo	gu	portobello mushroom
波特酒	bo	jiu	Port wine
波状云	bo	yun	undulatus
波状消光	bo	guang	(geology) undulose extinction
波状热	bo	re	undulant fever; brucellosis
波粒二象性	bo	xing	wave-particle duality in quantum mechanics
波罗的	bo	di	Baltic
波罗的海	bo	hai	Baltic Sea
波罗蜜	bo	mi	variant of 菠蘿蜜|菠萝蜜[bo1 luo2 mi4]
波美度	bo	du	Baume degrees
波美拉尼亚	bo	ya	Pomerania, a historical region on the south shore of the Baltic Sea
波美比重计	bo	ji	Baume hydrometer
波茨坦	bo	tan	Potsdam, near Berlin, Germany
波茨坦会议	bo	yi	Potsdam conference, July-August 1945, between Truman, Stalin and British prime ministers Churchill and Attlee
波茨坦公告	bo	gao	Potsdam Declaration
波莱罗	bo	luo	bolero (dance) (loanword)
波西米亚	bo	ya	Bohemia, historical region in Central Europe; bohemian (i.e. artistic and unconventional)
波诡云谲	bo	jue	see 波譎雲詭|波谲云诡[bo1 jue2 yun2 gui3]
波谲云诡	bo	gui	(idiom) ever-changing; unpredictable
波阿斯	bo	si	Boaz (son of Salmon and Rahab)
波阿次	bo	ci	Boaz (name)
波隆那	bo	na	Bologna, city in Northern Italy
波霸奶茶	bo	cha	bubble milk tea (Tw); Boba milk tea; tapioca milk tea
泣不成声	qi	sheng	(idiom) unable to speak through tears; sobbing uncontrollably
泥古不化	ni	hua	conservative and unable to adapt (idiom)
泥敷剂	ni	ji	poultice
泥水匠	ni	jiang	mason
泥沙俱下	ni	xia	mud and sand flow together (idiom); good and bad mingle
泥炭藓	ni	xian	matted sphagnum moss (Sphagnum palustre)
泥牛入海	ni	hai	lit. a clay ox enters the sea (idiom); fig. to disappear with no hope of returning
泥瓦匠	ni	jiang	bricklayer; tiler; mason
泥盆纪	ni	ji	Devonian (geological period 417-354m years ago)
泥石流	ni	liu	landslide; torrent of mud and stones; mudslide
泥腿子	ni	zi	peasant; yokel
泥菩萨	ni	sa	clay Bodhisattva
泥菩萨过江自身难保	ni	bao	like a clay Bodhisattva fording a river, can't guarantee his own safety; unable to save oneself, let alone others
泥质岩	ni	yan	mudstone (geology)
泥质页岩	ni	yan	mudstone
注册人	zhu	ren	registrant
注册会计师	zhu	shi	certified public accountant
注册商标	zhu	biao	registered trademark
注册表	zhu	biao	Windows registry
注射剂	zhu	ji	injection; shot
注射器	zhu	qi	syringe
注射针	zhu	zhen	needle; hypodermic needle
注射针头	zhu	tou	see 注射針|注射针[zhu4 she4 zhen1]
注意力	zhu	li	attention
注意力不足过动症	zhu	zheng	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注意力缺失症	zhu	zheng	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注意力缺陷多动症	zhu	zheng	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注意力缺陷过动症	zhu	zheng	attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)
注音一式	zhu	shi	Mandarin Phonetic Symbols 1; Bopomofo; abbr. for 國語注音符號第一式|国语注音符号第一式[Guo2 yu3 zhu4 yin1 fu2 hao4 di4 yi1 shi4]
注音字母	zhu	mu	see 注音符號|注音符号[zhu4 yin1 fu2 hao4]
注音法	zhu	fa	phonetic transcription; system of representing spoken sounds
注音符号	zhu	hao	Mandarin phonetic symbols (MPS), phonetic alphabet for Chinese used esp. in Taiwan, also known colloquially as Bopomofo (after the first four letters of the alphabet:ㄅㄆㄇㄈ)
泪失禁	lei	jin	(slang) to cry uncontrollably when emotionally overwhelmed
泪如雨下	lei	xia	tears falling like rain (idiom)
泪水涟涟	lei	lian	in floods of tears (idiom)
泪汪汪	lei	wang	tearful; brimming with tears
泪流满面	lei	mian	cheeks streaming with tears (idiom)
泪点低	lei	di	(neologism) easily moved to tears
泪眼婆娑	lei	suo	tearful (idiom)
泰兴市	tai	shi	Taixing, a county-level city in Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
泰加林	tai	lin	taiga (loanword)
泰卢固语	tai	yu	Telugu or Telegu, the official language of Andhra Pradesh, India
泰和县	tai	xian	Taihe, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
泰坦尼克号	tai	hao	RMS Titanic, British passenger liner that sank in 1912
泰坦巨龙	tai	long	titanosaur
泰姬玛哈陵	tai	ling	Taj Mahal; abbr. to 泰姬陵[Tai4 ji1 ling2]
泰姬陵	tai	ling	Taj Mahal (mausoleum in India)
泰宁县	tai	xian	Taining, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
泰安县	tai	xian	Tai'an county in Shandong
泰安市	tai	shi	Tai'an, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
泰山北斗	tai	dou	(lit.) Mount Tai and the Big Dipper (idiom); (fig.) an outstanding figure in one's field
泰山区	tai	qu	Taishan, a district of Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
泰山鸿毛	tai	mao	as weighty as Mt Tai, as light as a feather (refers to death)
泰州市	tai	shi	Taizhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
泰戈尔	tai	er	Rabindranath Tagore (1861-1941), Indian poet and writer
泰日天	tai	tian	(slang) toy poodle with a teddy-bear cut (humorous nickname based on a stereotype of excessive mounting behavior)
泰晤士	tai	shi	the Times (newspaper); River Thames, through London
泰晤士报	tai	bao	Times (newspaper)
泰晤士河	tai	he	River Thames
泰来县	tai	xian	Tailai, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
泰格尔	tai	er	Tegel (name); Tiger (name)
泰然处之	tai	zhi	to handle the situation calmly (idiom); unruffled; to treat the situation lightly
泰然自若	tai	ruo	cool and collected (idiom); showing no sign of nerves; perfectly composed
泰瑟尔岛	tai	dao	Texel island, Netherlands
泰瑟枪	tai	qiang	Taser (electroshock weapon)
泰米尔	tai	er	Tamil
泰米尔猛虎组织	tai	zhi	Tamil Tigers
泰米尔纳德	tai	de	Tamil Nadu, southeast Indian state, capital Chennai 欽奈|钦奈[Qin1 nai4]; formerly Madras state 馬德拉斯邦|马德拉斯邦[Ma3 de2 la1 si1 bang1]
泰米尔纳德邦	tai	bang	Tamil Nadu, southeast Indian state, capital Chennai 欽奈|钦奈[Qin1 nai4]; formerly Madras state 馬德拉斯邦|马德拉斯邦[Ma3 de2 la1 si1 bang1]
泰米尔语	tai	yu	Tamil language
泰西大儒	tai	ru	Great European Scholar (honorific title of Matteo Ricci)
泰迪熊	tai	xiong	(loanword) teddy bear
泰雅族	tai	zu	Atayal or Tayal, one of the indigenous ethnic groups of Taiwan
泰顺县	tai	xian	Taishun, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
泸定县	lu	xian	Luding, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
泸定桥	lu	qiao	Luding Bridge over Dadu river 大渡河[Da4 du4 he2] in Sichuan, built by Kangxi in 1706, linking Luding county Sichuan Luding county 瀘定縣|泸定县[Lu2 ding4 xian4] with Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州|甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
泸州市	lu	shi	Luzhou, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
泸水市	lu	shi	Lushui, a county-level city in Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture 怒江傈僳族自治州[Nu4 jiang1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
泸沽湖	lu	hu	Lugu Lake, alpine lake on the border of Yunnan and Sichuan
泸溪县	lu	xian	Luxi, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
泸西县	lu	xian	Luxi, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
泻肚子	xie	zi	see 瀉肚|泻肚[xie4 du4]
泼冷水	po	shui	to pour cold water on; (fig.) to dampen sb's enthusiasm
泼出去的水	po	shui	spilt water; (fig.) sth that can not be retrieved; spilt milk
泼妇骂街	po	jie	shouting abuse in the street like a fishwife
泼水节	po	jie	Songkran (Thai New Year)
泼水难收	po	shou	water once spilt cannot be retrieved (idiom); irreversible change
泼烟花	po	hua	low-class prostitute
泼脏水	po	shui	(fig.) to sling mud at; to smear; to slander
泼贱人	po	ren	slut; tramp (old)
泽州县	ze	xian	Zezhou, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
泽布吕赫	ze	he	Zeebrugge (port city in Belgium)
泽库县	ze	xian	Zêkog, a county in Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
泽普县	ze	xian	Poskam, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
泽西岛	ze	dao	Jersey Island (largest of the Channel Islands)
泾川县	jing	xian	Jingchuan, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
泾渭分明	jing	ming	as rivers Jing and Wei separate clearly (idiom); to be entirely different
泾源县	jing	xian	Jingyuan, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
泾阳县	jing	xian	Jingyang, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
洁净无瑕	jie	xia	clean and spotless
洁西卡	jie	ka	Jessica (name)
洁身自好	jie	hao	clean-living and honest (idiom); to avoid immorality; to shun evil influence; to mind one's own business and keep out of trouble
洁面乳	jie	ru	cleansing lotion
洁面露	jie	lu	cleansing lotion
洋中脊	yang	ji	mid-ocean ridge (geology)
洋务学堂	yang	tang	college of Western learning in late Qing
洋务派	yang	pai	the foreign learning or Westernizing faction in the late Qing
洋务运动	yang	dong	Self-Strengthening Movement (period of reforms in China c 1861-1894), also named 自強運動|自强运动
洋场恶少	yang	shao	a rich young bully of old Shanghai
洋垃圾	yang	ji	trash or used goods from Western countries; the dregs of society of Western countries; Taiwan pr. [yang2 le4 se4]
洋基队	yang	dui	New York Yankees (US baseball team)
洋大人	yang	ren	(derog.) foreigner treated as superior; privileged Westerner
洋娃娃	yang	wa	doll (of Western appearance)
洋学堂	yang	tang	school after the Western model, teaching subjects such as foreign languages, math, physics, chemistry etc (old)
洋山深水港	yang	gang	Yangshan Deepwater Port (near Shanghai)
洋山港	yang	gang	Yangshan Port (deepwater port near Shanghai)
洋底地壳	yang	qiao	oceanic crust (geology)
洋柿子	yang	zi	(dialect) tomato
洋桔梗	yang	geng	(botany) lisianthus; prairie gentian (Eustoma russellianum)
洋槐树	yang	shu	black locust tree (Robinia pseudoacacia)
洋泾浜英语	yang	yu	pidgin English
洋洋得意	yang	yi	immensely pleased with oneself (idiom); proud; complacent
洋洋洒洒	yang	sa	voluminous; flowing (of speeches, articles etc) (idiom)
洋洋自得	yang	de	immensely pleased with oneself (idiom); proud; complacent
洋浦经济开发区	yang	qu	Yangpu Economic Development Zone, Hainan
洋漂族	yang	zu	lit. ocean drifting people; job-hopping foreigner
洋琵琶	yang	pa	mandolin
洋甘菊	yang	ju	Matricaria recutita; chamomile
洋画儿	yang	r	children's game played with illustrated cards; pogs; menko (Japan)
洋白菜	yang	cai	cabbage (round cabbage most commonly found in Western countries)
洋紫苏	yang	su	sage (herb)
洋紫荆	yang	jing	Hong Kong orchid (Bauhinia blakeana)
洋腔洋调	yang	diao	to speak with a foreign accent or using words from a foreign language (usually derogatory) (idiom)
洋芋片	yang	pian	(Tw) potato chip
洋芫荽	yang	sui	parsley
洋葱圈	yang	quan	onion ring
洋蒲桃	yang	tao	love apple; wax apple; Syzygium samarangense (botany)
洋薏仁	yang	ren	pearl barley
洋薏米	yang	mi	pearl barley
洋香瓜	yang	gua	(Tw) cantaloupe; muskmelon
洋香菜	yang	cai	parsley
洋鬼子	yang	zi	foreign devil; term of abuse for Westerners
洒水机	sa	ji	sprinkler
洒水车	sa	che	sprinkler truck
洒狗血	sa	xie	to overreact; melodramatic
洗冤集录	xi	lu	"Collected Cases of Injustice Rectified" (1247) by Song Ci 宋慈[Song4 Ci2], said to be the world's first forensic science text
洗剪吹	xi	chui	shampoo, haircut and blow-dry
洗劫一空	xi	kong	to steal everything
洗发乳	xi	ru	shampoo
洗发剂	xi	ji	shampoo
洗发水	xi	shui	shampoo (liquid)
洗发水儿	xi	r	shampoo
洗发液	xi	ye	shampoo
洗发皂	xi	zao	shampoo
洗发粉	xi	fen	shampoo powder
洗发精	xi	jing	shampoo
洗发露	xi	lu	shampoo
洗心革面	xi	mian	lit. to wash one's heart and renew one's face (idiom); to repent sincerely and mend one's mistaken ways; to turn over a new leaf
洗手不干	xi	gan	to totally stop doing something; to reform one's ways
洗手乳	xi	ru	liquid hand soap
洗手台	xi	tai	vanity unit
洗手池	xi	chi	bathroom sink; wash basin
洗手液	xi	ye	liquid hand soap
洗手盆	xi	pen	bathroom sink; wash basin
洗手间	xi	jian	toilet; lavatory; washroom
洗染店	xi	dian	commercial laundry; cleaners
洗洁剂	xi	ji	detergent
洗洁精	xi	jing	dishwashing liquid
洗洗睡	xi	shui	to have a shower and go to bed; (fig.) (slang) (neologism) (often sarcastic) to give up on sth unrealistic; to stop kidding oneself; (used dismissively, typically as 洗洗睡吧[xi3 xi3 shui4 ba5]) keep dreaming
洗浴中心	xi	xin	bathing and recreation center
洗消剂	xi	ji	decontaminant; decontaminating agent
洗消场	xi	chang	decontaminating field
洗涤剂	xi	ji	cleaning agent; detergent
洗涤器	xi	qi	washing appliance
洗涤机	xi	ji	washer; washing machine; rinsing machine
洗涤桶	xi	tong	washtub
洗涤槽	xi	cao	washing tank; sink
洗涤灵	xi	ling	dishwashing liquid
洗涤间	xi	jian	washroom; washhouse
洗澡间	xi	jian	bathroom; restroom; shower room
洗甲水	xi	shui	nail polish remover
洗石子	xi	zi	(Tw) pebble-wash finish; exposed aggregate surface (construction technique using cement mixed with small stones, then washed to expose the pebbles)
洗碗机	xi	ji	dishwasher
洗碗池	xi	chi	kitchen sink
洗碗精	xi	jing	dishwashing liquid
洗者若翰	xi	han	St John the Baptist
洗耳恭听	xi	ting	to listen with respectful attention; (a polite request to sb to speak); we are all ears
洗脸台	xi	tai	commode; dressing table; sink
洗脸盆	xi	pen	washbowl; basin for washing hands and face
洗脸盘	xi	pan	a hand basin
洗衣店	xi	dian	laundry (commercial establishment)
洗衣房	xi	fang	laundry room
洗衣机	xi	ji	washing machine; washer; CL:臺|台[tai2]
洗衣板	xi	ban	washboard; (jocular) flat chest
洗衣液	xi	ye	liquid laundry detergent
洗衣粉	xi	fen	laundry detergent; washing powder
洗衣网	xi	wang	mesh laundry bag (for keeping garments separate from others in the washing machine)
洗面乳	xi	ru	cleansing lotion
洗面奶	xi	nai	cleansing lotion
洗黑钱	xi	qian	money laundering
洛伦茨	luo	ci	Lorentz (name); Hendrik Lorentz (1853-1928), Dutch physicist, 1902 Nobel laureate
洛佩兹	luo	zi	Lopez (name)
洛佩斯	luo	si	Lopez (name)
洛克人	luo	ren	Rockman or Mega Man (video game series)
洛克菲勒	luo	le	Rockefeller
洛克西德	luo	de	Lockheed (US aerospace company)
洛南县	luo	xian	Luonan, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
洛可可	luo	ke	rococo (loanword); very ornate
洛基山	luo	shan	Rocky Mountains; also written 洛磯山|洛矶山
洛子峰	luo	feng	Lhotse Mountain, between Tibet and Nepal
洛宁县	luo	xian	Luoning, a county in Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
洛川县	luo	xian	Luochuan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
洛希尔	luo	er	Rothschild (name)
洛必达法则	luo	ze	L'Hôpital's rule (math.)
洛扎县	luo	xian	Lhozhag, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
洛杉矶	luo	ji	Los Angeles, California
洛杉矶时报	luo	bao	Los Angeles Times
洛杉矶湖人	luo	ren	Los Angeles Lakers (NBA team)
洛江区	luo	qu	Luojiang, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
洛浦县	luo	xian	Lop, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
洛皮塔	luo	ta	Lawpita Falls on the Balu Chaung river, location of Myanmar's biggest hydroelectric plant
洛皮塔瀑布	luo	bu	Lawpita Falls on the Balu Chaung river, location of Myanmar's biggest hydroelectric plant
洛矶山	luo	shan	Rocky Mountains
洛矶山脉	luo	mai	Rocky Mountains
洛神花	luo	hua	roselle (Hibiscus sabdariffa)
洛锡安区	luo	qu	Lothian, Scottish region around Edinburgh
洛阳市	luo	shi	Luoyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
洛阳纸贵	luo	gui	lit. paper has become expensive in Luoyang (because everyone is making a copy of a popular story) (idiom); fig. (of a product) to sell like hotcakes
洛隆县	luo	xian	Lhorong, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
洛龙区	luo	qu	Luolong, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
洞口县	dong	xian	Dongkou, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
洞头区	dong	qu	Dongtou, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
洞察一切	dong	qie	to see everything clearly
洞察力	dong	li	insight
洞庭湖	dong	hu	Dongting Lake in northeast Hunan province
洞房花烛	dong	zhu	bridal room and ornamented candles; wedding festivities (idiom)
洞房花烛夜	dong	ye	wedding night
洞洞鞋	dong	xie	Crocs shoes (or any similar shoe)
洞若观火	dong	huo	lit. to see sth as clearly as one sees a blazing fire (idiom); fig. to grasp the situation thoroughly
津南区	jin	qu	Jinnan suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
津巴布韦	jin	wei	Zimbabwe
津市市	jin	shi	Jinshi, a county-level city in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
津津乐道	jin	dao	to discuss sth enthusiastically
津津有味	jin	wei	with keen interest (idiom); with great pleasure; with gusto
洪亮吉	hong	ji	Hong Liangji (1746-1809), poet and historian
洪博培	hong	pei	Jon Huntsman, Jr. (1960-), US politician, Governor of Utah 2005-2009, Ambassador to China 2009-2011
洪山区	hong	qu	Hongshan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
洪水期	hong	qi	flood season
洪水滔滔	hong	tao	(idiom) to have flooding over a vast area
洪水猛兽	hong	shou	lit. severe floods and fierce beasts (idiom); fig. great scourges; extremely dangerous or threatening things
洪汛期	hong	qi	flood season
洪江市	hong	shi	Hongjiang, a county-level city in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
洪江管理区	hong	qu	Hongjiang Management District, a district of Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
洪泽区	hong	qu	Hongze, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
洪泽湖	hong	hu	Hongze Lake in Jiangsu province
洪洞县	hong	xian	Hongtong, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
洪湖市	hong	shi	Honghu, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
洪福齐天	hong	tian	flood of good fortune fills the heavens (idiom); a lucky sign
洪秀全	hong	quan	Hong Xiuquan or Hung Hsiu-ch'üan (1814-1864), leader of the Taiping rebellion or Taiping Heavenly Kingdom
洪秀柱	hong	zhu	Hung Hsiu-chu (1948-), Taiwanese KMT politician
洪都拉斯	hong	si	Honduras
洪雅县	hong	xian	Hongya, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
洪雅族	hong	zu	Hoanya, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
洮北区	tao	qu	Taobei, a district of Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
洮南市	tao	shi	Taonan, a county-level city in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
洱源县	er	xian	Eryuan, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
洲际导弹	zhou	dan	intercontinental ballistic missile ICBM
洲际弹道导弹	zhou	dan	intercontinental ballistic missile ICBM
活下去	huo	qu	to survive; to keep on living
活不下去	huo	qu	impossible to make a living
活久见	huo	jian	(neologism c. 2006) if you live long enough, you'll see everything; Just incredible!
活人让尿憋死	huo	si	lit. such a fool as to die from holding in one's pee (idiom); fig. unable to solve a problem due to the inflexibility of one's thinking
活体检视	huo	shi	biopsy
活体组织检查	huo	cha	biopsy; abbr. to 活檢|活检[huo2 jian3]
活到老学到老	huo	lao	One is never too old to learn. (idiom)
活力四射	huo	she	dynamic; enthusiastic; energetic
活动中心	huo	xin	activity center; CL:處|处[chu4]
活动人士	huo	shi	activist
活动场地	huo	di	place for activities (playground, event venue etc)
活动家	huo	jia	activist
活动房	huo	fang	prefabricated building; prefab
活动房屋	huo	wu	prefabricated building; prefab; mobile home
活动扳手	huo	shou	adjustable spanner
活动挂图	huo	tu	flipchart
活动桌面	huo	mian	active desktop
活动看板	huo	ban	calendar of events
活动能力	huo	li	mobility; motility
活化分析	huo	xi	activation analysis
活化石	huo	shi	living fossil
活受罪	huo	zui	(coll.) to go through sheer hell
活字典	huo	dian	walking dictionary; well-informed person
活字印刷	huo	shua	printing with movable type
活学活用	huo	yong	to creatively combine learning with usage; to learn and apply pragmatically
活得不耐烦	huo	fan	to be tired of living; (coll.) to be asking for trouble
活性剂	huo	ji	reagent (chemistry)
活性氧类	huo	lei	activated oxygen species (AOS)
活性炭	huo	tan	activated carbon
活报剧	huo	ju	political street theater (loanword from Zhivaya Gazeta, or Living Newspaper, Russian theater form of the 1920s)
活期存款	huo	kuan	demand deposit
活期帐户	huo	hu	current account (in bank)
活期贷款	huo	kuan	demand loan (i.e. loan that the borrower can demanded back at any time)
活期资金	huo	jin	funds on call; invested sum that can be cashed
活火山	huo	shan	active volcano
活灵活现	huo	xian	living spirit, living image (idiom); true to life; vivid and realistic
活版印刷	huo	shua	printing with movable type; typesetting
活生生	huo	sheng	real (people); living (artist); while still alive (e.g. skinned alive)
活神仙	huo	xian	a god living in our midst (sb who can predict the future like a prophet or who leads a life without constraints)
活组织检查	huo	cha	biopsy
活脱脱	huo	tuo	remarkably alike
活色生香	huo	xiang	(of a flower) vividly colorful and fragrant; (of a woman) captivating; charming; (of writing or a painting etc) lifelike; vivid
活菩萨	huo	sa	a living Buddha; fig. compassionate person; saint
活见鬼	huo	gui	what the hell; preposterous
活跃分子	huo	zi	active member; activist
活蹦乱跳	huo	tiao	to leap and frisk about (idiom); lively; healthy and active
活雷锋	huo	feng	a selfless, helpful person, like the model citizen Lei Feng 雷鋒|雷锋[Lei2 Feng1] (often used to refer to sb in a joking or teasing way)
活靶子	huo	zi	live target; target (of criticism etc)
活龙活现	huo	xian	living spirit, living image (idiom); true to life; vivid and realistic
派上用场	pai	chang	to put to good use; to come in handy
派克大衣	pai	yi	parka jacket (loanword); CL:件[jian4]
派出所	pai	suo	local police station
派力奥	pai	ao	Fiat Palio
派拉蒙影业	pai	ye	Paramount Pictures (US movie company)
派斯托	pai	tuo	pesto (Italian sauce) (loanword)
派生词	pai	ci	derivative word
派翠西亚	pai	ya	Patricia
流于形式	liu	shi	to become a mere formality
流亡政府	liu	fu	government-in-exile
流体力学	liu	xue	fluid mechanics; hydrodynamics
流体动力学	liu	xue	fluid dynamics
流体核试验	liu	yan	hydronuclear explosion (HNE)
流光溢彩	liu	cai	(idiom) brilliant lights and vibrant colors
流动人口	liu	kou	floating population; transient population
流动儿童	liu	tong	children of migrant workers
流动性	liu	xing	flowing; shifting; fluidity; mobility; liquidity (of funds)
流动率	liu	lv	turnover rate (esp. of staff)
流动负债	liu	zhai	(accounting) current liabilities
流动资产	liu	chan	(financial reporting) current assets; liquid assets
流动资金	liu	jin	(accounting) working capital; circulating funds
流变学	liu	xue	rheology
流变能力	liu	li	rheology
流口水	liu	shui	to drool; to salivate; (fig.) to covet; to lust after
流媒体	liu	ti	streaming media
流宕忘反	liu	fan	to stray and forget to return
流年不利	liu	li	the year's horoscope augurs ill (idiom); an unlucky year
流感季	liu	ji	flu season
流感疫苗	liu	miao	influenza vaccine
流感病毒	liu	du	influenza virus; flu virus
流星体	liu	ti	meteoroid
流星赶月	liu	yue	lit. a meteor catching up with the moon; swift action (idiom)
流星锤	liu	chui	meteor hammer (ancient weapon consisting of two iron balls connected by a chain)
流星雨	liu	yu	meteor shower
流氓国家	liu	jia	rogue state
流氓无产者	liu	zhe	lumpenproletariat (in Marxist theory)
流氓罪	liu	zui	the crime of hooliganism
流氓软件	liu	jian	malware (computing)
流氓集团	liu	tuan	gang of hoodlums
流水不腐	liu	fu	flowing water does not rot
流水不腐户枢不蠹	liu	du	lit. flowing water does not rot, nor a door-hinge rust (idiom); fig. constant activity prevents decay
流水帐	liu	zhang	variant of 流水賬|流水账[liu2 shui3 zhang4]
流水席	liu	xi	banquet where guests arrive at various times and are served with food as they arrive
流水线	liu	xian	assembly line; (computing) pipeline
流水账	liu	zhang	day-to-day account; current account
流沙包	liu	bao	salted egg custard bun; lava bun (steamed bun with a sweet runny egg custard filling, a popular dim sum)
流浪儿	liu	er	street urchin; waif
流浪汉	liu	han	tramp; wanderer
流浪狗	liu	gou	stray dog
流浪猫	liu	mao	stray cat
流浪者	liu	zhe	rover; vagabond; vagrant
流球群岛	liu	dao	the Ryukyu or Luchu Islands (including Okinawa)
流理台	liu	tai	kitchen counter (generally including sink, food preparation area and gas range) (Tw)
流离失所	liu	suo	destitute and homeless (idiom); forced from one's home and wandering about; displaced
流离遇合	liu	he	to reunite after being homeless refugees
流离颠沛	liu	pei	destitute and homeless (idiom); displaced and without means
流程图	liu	tu	flow chart
流程表	liu	biao	flow chart
流窜犯	liu	fan	criminal at large
流纹岩	liu	yan	rhyolite (extrusive igneous rock, chemically equivalent to granite)
流线型	liu	xing	sleek; streamlined
流芳千古	liu	gu	see 流芳百世[liu2 fang1 bai3 shi4]
流芳百世	liu	shi	(of one's name, reputation etc) to be immortalized (idiom); to leave a mark for generations to come
流苏鹬	liu	yu	(bird species of China) ruff (Calidris pugnax)
流落他乡	liu	xiang	to wander far from home
流行性	liu	xing	qualities that make sth popular or fashionable; (of a disease) epidemic
流行性感冒	liu	mao	influenza
流行株	liu	zhu	epidemic strain
流行病	liu	bing	epidemic disease
流行病学	liu	xue	epidemiology
流行语	liu	yu	popular jargon; catchword
流行音乐	liu	yue	pop music
流言蜚语	liu	yu	rumors and slanders (idiom); gossip; lies and slanders
流连忘返	liu	fan	to linger; to remain enjoying oneself and forget to go home
流里流气	liu	qi	hooliganism; rowdyism
流量明星	liu	xing	(neologism c. 2014) celebrity with a huge, devoted fan base; celebrity with a huge following on social media
流量计	liu	ji	flowmeter
流鼻涕	liu	ti	to have a runny nose
流鼻血	liu	xie	to bleed from the nose; (fig.) to be sexually aroused
浅尝辄止	qian	zhi	(lit.) to stop after taking just a sip (idiom); (fig.) to gain only a superficial knowledge of sth and then stop
浅层文字	qian	zi	shallow orthography (governed by simple rules)
浅希近求	qian	qiu	to aim low; to aim to get by; without lofty ambition
浅显易懂	qian	dong	(idiom) easy to understand
浅浮雕	qian	diao	bas-relief
浅源地震	qian	zhen	shallow earthquake (with epicenter less than 70 km deep)
浅黄色	qian	se	buff; pale yellow
浇冷水	jiao	shui	to pour cold water; fig. to discourage
浈江区	zhen	qu	Zhenjiang, a district of Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
浉河区	shi	qu	Shihe, a district of Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
浊塞音	zhuo	yin	(linguistics) voiced stop
浊积岩	zhuo	yan	turbidite (geology)
浊臭熏天	zhuo	tian	stinks to high heaven
浊辅音	zhuo	yin	voiced consonant (linguistics)
测地曲率	ce	lv	geodesic curvature
测地线	ce	xian	geodesic; a geodesic (curve)
测地线曲率	ce	lv	geodesic curvature
测径器	ce	qi	calipers
测心术	ce	shu	mind reading
测温枪	ce	qiang	temperature gun
测试器	ce	qi	testing apparatus; monitoring device; checker
测谎仪	ce	yi	lie detector; polygraph
测谎器	ce	qi	lie detector; polygraph
测距仪	ce	yi	electronic equipment used to measure distance (e.g. a rangefinder, telemeter etc)
测量工具	ce	ju	gauge; measuring tool
测量船	ce	chuan	survey vessel
济南市	ji	shi	Jinan, sub-provincial city and capital of Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
济危扶困	ji	kun	to help people in difficulty and bring relief to the needy (idiom)
济困扶危	ji	wei	to help those in distress (idiom)
济宁市	ji	shi	Jining, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
济州岛	ji	dao	Jeju Island special autonomous province, South Korea, a World Heritage site
济州特别自治道	ji	dao	Jeju island special autonomous province, South Korea, a World Heritage site
济济一堂	ji	tang	to congregate in one hall (idiom); to gather under one roof
济源市	ji	shi	Jiyuan directly administered city in Henan
济阳区	ji	qu	Jiyang, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
浏览器	liu	qi	browser (software)
浏览软件	liu	jian	a web browser
浏览量	liu	liang	(website) traffic; page views; volume of website traffic
浏阳市	liu	shi	Liuyang, a county-level city in Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
浑南区	hun	qu	Hunnan, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
浑天仪	hun	yi	armillary sphere (astronomy)
浑天说	hun	shuo	geocentric theory in ancient Chinese astronomy
浑小子	hun	zi	(derog.) young hooligan (sometimes said in jest)
浑水摸鱼	hun	yu	to fish in troubled water (idiom); to take advantage of a crisis for personal gain
浑江区	hun	qu	Hunjiang, a district of Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
浑浑噩噩	hun	e	(idiom) muddleheaded
浑源县	hun	xian	Hunyuan, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
浑然一体	hun	ti	to blend into one another; to blend together well
浑然不知	hun	zhi	to be totally oblivious (to sth); to have no idea about sth
浑然不觉	hun	jue	totally unaware
浑然天成	hun	cheng	to resemble nature itself; of the highest quality (idiom)
浑球儿	hun	r	variant of 混球兒|混球儿[hun2 qiu2 r5]
浑身上下	hun	xia	all over; from head to toe
浑身解数	hun	shu	to give it your all; to go at it with all you've got; to throw your whole weight behind it
浓墨重彩	nong	cai	thick and heavy in colors; to describe sth in colorful language with attention to detail (idiom)
浓妆艳抹	nong	mo	to apply makeup conspicuously (idiom); dressed to the nines and wearing makeup
浓眉大眼	nong	yan	thick eyebrows and big eyes
浓缩咖啡	nong	fei	espresso
浓缩铀	nong	you	enriched uranium
浓集铀	nong	you	enriched uranium
浔阳区	xun	qu	Xunyang, a district of Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
浙江大学	zhe	xue	Zhejiang University
浙江省	zhe	sheng	Zhejiang Province, capital Hangzhou 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 浙[Zhe4])
浚泥船	jun	chuan	dredger
浠水县	xi	xian	Xishui, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
浣纱记	huan	ji	Huansahji or Washing the Silken Gauze, Yuan and Ming saga reworked by 梁辰魚|梁辰鱼 from History of the Southern States Wu and Yue, 吳越春秋|吴越春秋, a popular opera subject
浦东新区	pu	qu	see 浦東|浦东[Pu3 dong1]
浦东机场	pu	chang	Shanghai Pudong International Airport
浦北县	pu	xian	Pubei, a county in Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
浦口区	pu	qu	Pukou, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
浦城县	pu	xian	Pucheng, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
浦江县	pu	xian	Pujiang, a county in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
浩如烟海	hao	hai	vast as the open sea (idiom); fig. extensive (library)
浩浩荡荡	hao	dang	(idiom) grandiose; majestic
浪卡子	lang	zi	see 浪卡子縣|浪卡子县[Lang4 ka3 zi3 Xian4]
浪卡子县	lang	xian	Nagarzê, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
浪子回头	lang	tou	the return of a prodigal son (idiom)
浪子回头金不换	lang	huan	a prodigal son returned home is worth more than gold
浪得虚名	lang	ming	to have an undeserved reputation (idiom)
浪漫主义	lang	yi	romanticism
浪费金钱	lang	qian	to squander money; to spend extravagantly
浪迹天涯	lang	ya	to roam far and wide (idiom); to travel the world
浪迹江湖	lang	hu	to roam far and wide; to drift with the wind
浮世绘	fu	hui	ukiyo-e
浮云朝露	fu	lu	floating clouds, morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral nature of human existence
浮光掠影	fu	ying	flickering light and passing shadows (idiom); blurred scenery; cursory
浮出水面	fu	mian	to float up (idiom); to become evident; to surface; to appear
浮力定律	fu	lv	Archimedes' principle (physical law of buoyancy)
浮力调整背心	fu	xin	BCD; Buoyancy Compensation Device (diving)
浮力调整装置	fu	zhi	BCD; Buoyancy Compensation Device (diving)
浮动地狱	fu	yu	floating hell; slave ships
浮动窗口	fu	kou	(computing) floating window
浮士德博士	fu	shi	Dr Faustus
浮家泛宅	fu	zhai	lit. to live on a boat; to drift from place to place (idiom)
浮小麦	fu	mai	unripe wheat grain (used in TCM)
浮山县	fu	xian	Fushan, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
浮想联翩	fu	pian	to let one's imagination roam
浮梁县	fu	xian	Fuliang, a county in Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
浮游生物	fu	wu	plankton
浮点型	fu	xing	(computing) floating-point; float
浮点数	fu	shu	(computing) floating-point number; float
浮点运算	fu	suan	floating point operation
浮生六记	fu	ji	Six Records of a Floating Life, autobiographical novel and description of Qing dynasty life by 沈復|沈复[Shen3 Fu4], published 1808
浮肿病	fu	bing	(medicine) edema; dropsy
浮雕墙纸	fu	zhi	embossed wallpaper
浴火重生	yu	sheng	to rise from the ashes (idiom); to thrive again after surviving an ordeal
浴血奋战	yu	zhan	(idiom) to fight bravely amid bloodshed and great sacrifice
海上奇书	hai	shu	literary journal published in 1892–93 by Han Bangqing 韓邦慶|韩邦庆[Han2 Bang1 qing4] featuring serialized novels in Classical Chinese and Jiangsu vernacular
海上花列传	hai	zhuan	"The Sing-Song Girls of Shanghai", a novel by Han Bangqing 韓邦慶|韩邦庆[Han2 Bang1 qing4] depicting the lives of Shanghai courtesans in the late Qing dynasty
海东市	hai	shi	Haidong, prefecture-level city in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
海东青	hai	qing	(bird species of China) gyrfalcon (Falco rusticolus)
海丰县	hai	xian	Haifeng, a county in Shanwei City 汕尾市[Shan4 wei3 Shi4], Guangdong
海事处	hai	chu	Marine Department (Hong Kong)
海事局	hai	ju	PRC Maritime Safety Agency
海事法院	hai	yuan	maritime court
海于格松	hai	song	Haugesund (city in Rogaland, Norway)
海伦市	hai	shi	Hailun, a county-level city in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
海伯利	hai	li	Highbury (name)
海关总署	hai	shu	General Administration of Customs (GAC)
海关部门	hai	men	customs section
海兴县	hai	xian	Haixing, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
海内外	hai	wai	domestic and international; at home and abroad
海军上校	hai	xiao	captain (= UK and US Navy equivalent)
海军中校	hai	xiao	commander (= UK and US Navy equivalent)
海军大校	hai	xiao	commodore (= US Navy equivalent)
海军少校	hai	xiao	lieutenant commander
海军蓝	hai	lan	navy blue
海军陆战队	hai	dui	marine corps; marines
海刺芹	hai	qin	sea holly (Eryngium maritimum)
海勃湾	hai	wan	see 海勃灣區|海勃湾区[Hai3 bo2 wan1 Qu1]
海勃湾区	hai	qu	Haibowan, a district of Wuhai City 烏海市|乌海市[Wu1 hai3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
海北州	hai	zhou	see 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
海北藏族自治州	hai	zhou	Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
海协会	hai	hui	Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits (ARATS); abbr. for 海峽兩岸關係協會|海峡两岸关系协会[Hai3 xia2 Liang3 an4 Guan1 xi5 Xie2 hui4]
海南区	hai	qu	Hainan, a district of Wuhai City 烏海市|乌海市[Wu1 hai3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
海南大学	hai	xue	Hainan University
海南孔雀雉	hai	zhi	(bird species of China) Hainan peacock-pheasant (Polyplectron katsumatae)
海南山鹧鸪	hai	gu	(bird species of China) Hainan partridge (Arborophila ardens)
海南岛	hai	dao	Hainan Island, China's southernmost province, off the coast of Guangdong
海南州	hai	zhou	see 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
海南柳莺	hai	ying	(bird species of China) Hainan leaf warbler (Phylloscopus hainanus)
海南省	hai	sheng	Hainan Province, capital Haikou 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4] (short name 瓊|琼[Qiong2])
海南蓝仙鹟	hai	weng	(bird species of China) Hainan blue flycatcher (Cyornis hainanus)
海南藏族自治州	hai	zhou	Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
海南鳈	hai	quan	Sarcocheilichthys hainanensis, a species of cyprinid fish found in China, Laos and Vietnam
海南鳽	hai	yan	(bird species of China) white-eared night heron (Oroanassa magnifica)
海印寺	hai	si	Haein Temple in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea, the repository of Tripitaka Koreana 高麗大藏經|高丽大藏经[Gao1 li2 Da4 zang4 jing1], a World Heritage site
海原县	hai	xian	Haiyuan, a county in Zhongwei City 中衛市|中卫市[Zhong1 wei4 Shi4], Ningxia
海参崴	hai	wai	Haishenwai, traditional Chinese name for Vladivostok 符拉迪沃斯托克[Fu2 la1 di2 wo4 si1 tuo1 ke4]
海口市	hai	shi	Haikou, prefecture-level city and capital of Hainan Province 海南省[Hai3 nan2 Sheng3]
海城区	hai	qu	Haicheng, a district of Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
海城市	hai	shi	Haicheng, a county-level city in Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
海基会	hai	hui	Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF), semi-official organization established by the ROC government in Taiwan
海外版	hai	ban	foreign edition (of a newspaper)
海外赤子	hai	zi	patriotic overseas compatriot
海宁市	hai	shi	Haining, a county-level city in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
海安市	hai	shi	Hai'an, a county-level city in Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
海尔德兰	hai	lan	Gelderland, province of the Netherlands
海尼根	hai	gen	Heineken (Dutch brewing company); see also 喜力[Xi3 li4]
海岛市	hai	shi	Municipality of the Islands (Macau); Concelho das Ilhas
海岸护卫队	hai	dui	coast guard
海岸线	hai	xian	coastline; seaboard; shoreline
海岸警卫队	hai	dui	coastguard
海峡两岸关系协会	hai	hui	PRC Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits (ARATS)
海峡交流基金会	hai	hui	Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF); abbr. to 海基會|海基会[Hai3 ji1 hui4]
海峡时报	hai	bao	The Straits Times
海峡群岛	hai	dao	Channel Islands
海州区	hai	qu	Haizhou, a district of Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu; Haizhou, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
海市蜃楼	hai	lou	(idiom) (lit. and fig.) mirage
海平面	hai	mian	sea level
海底扩张	hai	zhang	seafloor spreading (geology)
海底扩张说	hai	shuo	theory of seafloor spreading (geology)
海底捞	hai	lao	Haidilao (aka Hai Di Lao), hot pot restaurant chain founded in Sichuan in 1994
海底捞月	hai	yue	see 水中撈月|水中捞月[shui3 zhong1 lao1 yue4]; (mahjong) to complete one's hand on the last draw of the round
海底捞针	hai	zhen	see 大海撈針|大海捞针[da4 hai3 lao1 zhen1]
海底椰	hai	ye	coco de mer or "sea coconut" (Lodoicea maldivica)
海底热泉	hai	quan	(marine geology) hydrothermal vent
海底轮	hai	lun	muladhara, the root or Saturn chakra, residing in the coccyx
海德保	hai	bao	Heidelberg (Germany)
海德公园	hai	yuan	Hyde Park
海德堡	hai	bao	Heidelberg
海德尔堡	hai	bao	Heidelberg
海德格尔	hai	er	Martin Heidegger (1889-1976), German philosopher
海拉尔	hai	er	see 海拉爾區|海拉尔区[Hai3 la1 er3 Qu1]
海拉尔区	hai	qu	Hailar, a district of Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
海明威	hai	wei	Ernest Hemingway (1899-1961), American novelist and journalist
海星机场	hai	chang	nickname of Beijing Daxing International Airport 北京大興國際機場|北京大兴国际机场[Bei3 jing1 Da4 xing1 Guo2 ji4 Ji1 chang3], whose terminal building looks like a giant alien starfish
海晏县	hai	xian	Haiyan, a county in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
海晏河清	hai	qing	(lit.) the Yellow River is clear and the seas are calm (idiom); (fig.) the world is at peace
海曙区	hai	qu	Haishu, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
海林市	hai	shi	Hailin, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
海枯石烂	hai	lan	(lit.) until the seas dry up and stones go soft (idiom); (fig.) forever; until the end of time
海棠区	hai	qu	Haitang, a district of Sanya City 三亞市|三亚市[San1 ya4 Shi4], Hainan
海棠形	hai	xing	quatrefoil (usually elongated)
海棠花	hai	hua	Chinese flowering crab-apple (Malus spectabilis)
海森伯	hai	bo	Werner Heisenberg (1901-1976), German physicist
海森堡	hai	bao	Werner Heisenberg (1901–1976), German physicist
海椰子	hai	zi	coco de mer or "sea coconut" (Lodoicea maldivica)
海水不可斗量	hai	liang	see 人不可貌相，海水不可斗量[ren2 bu4 ke3 mao4 xiang4 , hai3 shui3 bu4 ke3 dou3 liang2]
海水倒灌	hai	guan	saltwater intrusion
海水养殖	hai	zhi	aquaculture
海水鱼	hai	yu	saltwater fish
海沧区	hai	qu	Haicang, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
海洋学	hai	xue	oceanography
海洋性	hai	xing	maritime
海洋性气候	hai	hou	maritime climate
海洋性贫血	hai	xue	thalassemia
海洋温差发电	hai	dian	ocean thermal energy conversion (OTEC)
海洋雪	hai	xue	marine snow
海洋馆	hai	guan	aquarium; oceanarium
海洛因	hai	yin	(loanword) heroin
海洛英	hai	ying	(loanword) heroin
海涂围垦	hai	ken	tideland reclamation
海淀区	hai	qu	Haidian, a district of Beijing
海淀图书城	hai	cheng	Haidian Book City, Beijing bookstore
海港区	hai	qu	Haigang, a district of Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
海湾国家	hai	jia	nations of the Persian Gulf; Gulf states
海湾战争	hai	zheng	(Persian) Gulf War
海狸鼠	hai	shu	(zoology) coypu; nutria
海王星	hai	xing	Neptune (planet)
海珠区	hai	qu	Haizhu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
海瑞罢官	hai	guan	Hai Rui dismissed from office, 1960 historical play by historian Wu Han 吳晗|吴晗
海瓜子	hai	zi	Tellina iridescens (a bivalve mollusk); any similar small clam
海百合	hai	he	sea lily; crinoid
海皇羹	hai	geng	Cantonese seafood soup
海盐县	hai	xian	Haiyan, a county in Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
海监船	hai	chuan	naval surveillance vessel; maritime patrol boat
海盗行为	hai	wei	piracy
海相沉积物	hai	wu	oceanic sediment (geology)
海砂屋	hai	wu	house built with cheap, unreliable concrete which contains a high quantity of sea sand
海空军	hai	jun	navy and air force
海空军基地	hai	di	naval and air military base
海纳百川	hai	chuan	all rivers run into the sea; use different means to obtain the same result (idiom)
海绵体	hai	ti	erectile tissue (genital); corpus cavernosum
海绵宝宝	hai	bao	SpongeBob SquarePants (US animated TV series, 1999–)
海绵状	hai	zhuang	spongy
海绵蛋糕	hai	gao	sponge cake
海肠子	hai	zi	(coll.) marine worm resembling intestines such as the spoon worm (echiuroid) or the peanut worm (Sipunculus nudus)
海蛎子	hai	zi	oyster
海蛞蝓	hai	yu	sea slug
海螵蛸	hai	xiao	cuttlebone (used in TCM)
海西州	hai	zhou	see 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
海角天涯	hai	ya	see 天涯海角[tian1 ya2 hai3 jiao3]
海誓山盟	hai	meng	to pledge undying love (idiom); oath of eternal love; to swear by all the Gods
海警局	hai	ju	China Coast Guard
海豚座	hai	zuo	Delphinus (constellation)
海豚音	hai	yin	(singing) (coll.) whistle note
海豚馆	hai	guan	dolphinarium
海豹科	hai	ke	Phocidae, family within Carnivora including seal
海豹突击队	hai	dui	(US Navy) SEAL commando unit
海豹部队	hai	dui	see 海豹突擊隊|海豹突击队[Hai3 bao4 tu1 ji1 dui4]
海贼版	hai	ban	(ACG) pirated version; unauthorized copy
海贼王	hai	wang	One Piece (manga and anime)
海运费	hai	fei	shipping; sea transport
海部俊树	hai	shu	KAIFU Toshiki (1931-), Japanese politician, prime minister 1989-1991
海门区	hai	qu	Haimen, a district of Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
海阔天空	hai	kong	wide sea and sky (idiom); boundless open vistas; the whole wide world; chatting about everything under the sun
海阳市	hai	shi	Haiyang, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
海陆军	hai	jun	navy and army; military force
海陆煲	hai	bao	Sea and Land Casserole (Zhejiang dish of chicken and clams simmered in herbal broth)
海陆空	hai	kong	sea land air (transport, or military operations)
海陵区	hai	qu	Hailing, a district of Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
海青天	hai	tian	popular nickname of Hai Rui 海瑞[Hai3 Rui4] (1514-1587), Ming politician, famous for honesty and integrity
海马体	hai	ti	(anatomy) hippocampus
海马回	hai	hui	(Tw) (anatomy) hippocampus
海魂衫	hai	shan	Breton shirt; sailor's striped shirt
海鲜酱	hai	jiang	hoisin sauce (barbecue sauce); seafood sauce
海鸬鹚	hai	ci	(bird species of China) pelagic cormorant (Urile pelagicus)
浸信会	jin	hui	Baptists
浸猪笼	jin	long	to drown sb in a wicker basket, a form of 沉潭[chen2 tan2]
浸礼会	jin	hui	Baptists
浸礼教	jin	jiao	Baptist denomination
涂尔干	tu	gan	Durkheim (1858-1917), French sociologist
涂抹酱	tu	jiang	spread (for putting on bread etc)
涂改液	tu	ye	correction fluid
涂油于	tu	yu	anoint
涂浆台	tu	tai	pasting table (for wallpapering)
涂白剂	tu	ji	a white paint applied to tree trunks to protect the trees from insect damage etc
涂脂抹粉	tu	fen	(idiom) to put on makeup; (idiom) to prettify
涅槃经	nie	jing	(Buddhism) the Nirvana Sutra
涅瓦河	nie	he	Nyeva or Neva River (through St Petersburg)
消保官	xiao	guan	consumer protection officer (Tw)
消化不良	xiao	liang	indigestion
消化液	xiao	ye	digestive fluid
消化管	xiao	guan	digestive tube; gut
消化系统	xiao	tong	digestive system; gastrointestinal tract
消化腺	xiao	xian	digestive glands
消化道	xiao	dao	digestive tract
消化酒	xiao	jiu	digestif
消化酶	xiao	mei	digestive enzyme
消基会	xiao	hui	Consumers' Foundation, Chinese Taipei (CFCT) (abbr. for 中華民國消費者文教基金會|中华民国消费者文教基金会)
消声器	xiao	qi	noise reduction equipment
消息来源	xiao	yuan	web feed; news feed; syndicated feed
消息灵通	xiao	tong	to be well-informed
消息灵通人士	xiao	shi	well-informed source; person with inside information
消息队列	xiao	lie	message queue (computing)
消愁解闷	xiao	men	lit. to eliminate worry and dispel melancholy (idiom); diversion from boredom; to dispel depression or melancholy; to relieve stress
消极性	xiao	xing	passive; passivity; negative
消歧义	xiao	yi	to remove ambiguity; disambiguation (in Wikipedia)
消毒剂	xiao	ji	disinfectant
消毒洗手液	xiao	ye	hand sanitizer
消消停停	xiao	ting	intermittently
消火栓	xiao	shuan	fire hydrant
消灾避邪	xiao	xie	to avoid calamities and evil spirits
消炎片	xiao	pian	antipyretic tablet (to reduce fever), such as sulfanilamide
消炎药	xiao	yao	anti-inflammatory medicine
消石灰	xiao	hui	calcium hydroxide Ca(OH)2; slaked lime
消磨时间	xiao	jian	to kill time
消耗品	xiao	pin	consumable goods; expendable item
消耗战	xiao	zhan	war of attrition
消耗量	xiao	liang	rate of consumption
消费价格指数	xiao	shu	consumer price index CPI
消费券	xiao	quan	voucher; coupon
消费品	xiao	pin	consumer goods
消费税	xiao	shui	consumption tax; sales tax
消费级	xiao	ji	consumer-grade; consumer-level
消费群	xiao	qun	consumer group
消费者	xiao	zhe	consumer
消费者保护	xiao	hu	(law) consumer protection
消费资料	xiao	liao	consumption data; consumer goods
消费金融	xiao	rong	consumer finance
消闲儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 消閒|消闲[xiao1 xian2]
消防员	xiao	yuan	firefighter; fireman
消防局	xiao	ju	fire department
消防栓	xiao	shuan	fire hydrant
消防署	xiao	shu	fire station
消防车	xiao	che	fire engine; fire truck
消防通道	xiao	dao	fire exit; (firefighting) fire lane
消防队	xiao	dui	fire department; fire brigade
消防队员	xiao	yuan	fireman
消除歧义	xiao	yi	to disambiguate
消除锯齿	xiao	chi	anti-alias (computer graphics)
消音器	xiao	qi	silencer
消食儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 消食[xiao1 shi2]
涉世未深	she	shen	unpracticed; inexperienced; naive
涉嫌人	she	ren	(criminal) suspect
涉水靴	she	xue	wading boots; high-topped waterproof boots
涉水鸟	she	niao	a wading bird
涉黑案	she	an	gang-related case; criminal case
涌泉相报	yong	bao	to repay a kindness many times over (from the saying 滴水之恩，當湧泉相報|滴水之恩，当涌泉相报[di1 shui3 zhi1 en1 , dang1 yong3 quan2 xiang1 bao4])
涌泉穴	yong	xue	(TCM) acupuncture point KI-1, located on the sole
涓埃之力	juan	li	negligible force (idiom); tiny force
涓滴归公	juan	gong	every drop returns to the public good (idiom); not one penny is misused
涕泗横流	ti	liu	tears and mucus flowing profusely; sniveling; in a tragic state
涕泗滂沱	ti	tuo	a flood of tears and mucus; broken-hearted and weeping bitterly
涕泗纵横	ti	heng	tears and mucus flowing profusely; sniveling; in a tragic state
涕泪交加	ti	jia	(idiom) weeping uncontrollably
涕泪交流	ti	liu	tears and mucus flowing profusely (idiom); weeping tragically
涞水县	lai	xian	Laishui, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
涞源县	lai	xian	Laiyuan, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
涟水县	lian	xian	Lianshui, a county in Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
涟源市	lian	shi	Lianyuan, a county-level city in Loudi City 婁底市|娄底市[Lou2 di3 Shi4], Hunan
涟漪微漾	lian	yang	ripples; riffles
涡虫纲	wo	gang	Turbellaria (an order of flatworms)
涡轮喷气发动机	wo	ji	turbojet
涡轮轴发动机	wo	ji	turboshaft
涡阳县	guo	xian	Guoyang, a county in Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
涣然冰释	huan	shi	(idiom) to melt away; to dissipate
涤罪所	di	suo	purgatory (religion)
润发乳	run	ru	hair conditioner
润发液	run	ye	hair conditioner
润发露	run	lu	hair conditioner
润唇膏	run	gao	chapstick; lip balm
润州区	run	qu	Runzhou, a district of Zhenjiang City 鎮江市|镇江市[Zhen4 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangsu
润滑剂	run	ji	lubricant
润滑油	run	you	lubricating oil
润滑液	run	ye	lubricant
润肠通便	run	bian	to cure constipation with laxatives
润肤乳	run	ru	body lotion; body shampoo
润肤膏	run	gao	moisturizing cream
润肤霜	run	shuang	moisturizer
润肤露	run	lu	body lotion
涧西区	jian	qu	Jianxi, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
涨停板	zhang	ban	daily upper limit on the price of a stock
涨姿势	zhang	shi	Internet slang for 長知識|长知识[zhang3 zhi1 shi5]
涨跌幅限制	zhang	zhi	limit up, limit down; limit on daily price variation
涪城区	fu	qu	Fucheng, a district of Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
涪陵区	fu	qu	Fuling, a district in central Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
涮涮锅	shuan	guo	shabu-shabu (Japanese-style hot pot)
涮火锅	shuan	guo	see 涮鍋子|涮锅子[shuan4 guo1 zi5]
涮羊肉	shuan	rou	instant-boiled mutton; thinly sliced mutton cooked briefly in a hot pot
涮锅子	shuan	zi	to eat hot pot; to cook thinly sliced meat briefly in boiling broth at the table
液化气	ye	qi	liquid gas; bottled gas (fuel)
液化石油气	ye	qi	liquefied petroleum gas
液压传动	ye	dong	hydraulic drive; hydraulic transmission
液压千斤顶	ye	ding	hydraulic jack
液态奶	ye	nai	general term for milk packaged for the consumer, including long-life (UHT) milk, pasteurized milk and reconstituted milk
液态水	ye	shui	liquid water (as opposed to steam or ice)
液晶屏	ye	ping	liquid crystal screen
液晶显示	ye	shi	LCD; liquid crystal display
液晶显示器	ye	qi	liquid crystal display
涵江区	han	qu	Hanjiang, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
涸泽而渔	he	yu	see 竭澤而漁|竭泽而渔[jie2 ze2 er2 yu2]
涸辙之鲋	he	fu	lit. a fish in a dried-out rut (idiom); fig. a person in dire straits
涿州市	zhuo	shi	Zhuozhou, a county-level city in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
涿鹿县	zhuo	xian	Zhuolu, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
淀山湖	dian	hu	Dianshan Lake in Shanghai
淀积物	dian	wu	(geology) illuvial material
淀粉肠	dian	chang	starchy sausage (low-cost sausage made with a high proportion of starch and little meat)
淀粉酶	dian	mei	amylase
淄博市	zi	shi	Zibo, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
淄川区	zi	qu	Zichuan, a district of Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
淅川县	xi	xian	Xichuan, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
淇滨区	qi	qu	Qibin, a district of Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
淋巴液	lin	ye	lymph
淋巴瘤	lin	liu	lymphoma
淋巴癌	lin	ai	lymphoma (lay term for 淋巴瘤[lin2 ba1 liu2])
淋巴管	lin	guan	lymphatic vessel
淋巴系统	lin	tong	lymphatic system
淋巴细胞	lin	bao	lymphocyte
淋巴结	lin	jie	lymph node; lymph gland
淋巴腺	lin	xian	lymph node; lymph gland
淋溶土	lin	tu	argosol (soil taxonomy)
淋溶层	lin	ceng	alluvium (soil deposited by rivers)
淋漓尽致	lin	zhi	lit. extreme saturation (idiom); fig. vividly and thoroughly; in great detail
淋球菌	lin	jun	gonococcus; Neisseria gonorrhoeae, the pathogen causing gonorrhea
淌口水	tang	shui	to let saliva dribble from the mouth; to slobber
淌眼泪	tang	lei	to shed tears
淑人君子	shu	zi	virtuous gentleman (idiom)
淑女车	shu	che	ladies bicycle
淘宝网	tao	wang	Taobao Marketplace, a Chinese website for online shopping
淘汰赛	tao	sai	a knockout competition
淘金潮	tao	chao	gold rush
淘金热	tao	re	gold rush
淘金者	tao	zhe	gold panner; prospector for gold
淡喉鹩鹛	dan	mei	(bird species of China) pale-throated wren-babbler (Spelaeornis kinneari)
淡妆浓抹	dan	mo	in light or heavy makeup (idiom)
淡尾鹟莺	dan	ying	(bird species of China) Alström's warbler (Phylloscopus soror)
淡巴菰	dan	gu	tobacco (loanword) (old)
淡水区	dan	qu	Tamsui or Danshui District, New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
淡水湖	dan	hu	freshwater lake
淡水鱼	dan	yu	freshwater fish
淡泊名利	dan	li	not caring about fame and fortune (idiom); indifferent to worldly rewards
淡泊明志	dan	zhi	living a simple life as one's ideal (idiom)
淡灰眉岩鹀	dan	wu	(bird species of China) rock bunting (Emberiza cia)
淡眉柳莺	dan	ying	(bird species of China) Hume's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus humei)
淡绿鵙鹛	dan	mei	(bird species of China) green shrike-babbler (Pteruthius xanthochlorus)
淡脚树莺	dan	ying	(bird species of China) pale-footed bush warbler (Hemitesia pallidipes)
淡腹点翅朱雀	dan	que	(bird species of China) Sharpe's rosefinch (Carpodacus verreauxii)
淡色崖沙燕	dan	yan	(bird species of China) pale martin (Riparia diluta)
淡蓝色	dan	se	light blue
淡颏仙鹟	dan	weng	(bird species of China) pale-chinned flycatcher (Cyornis poliogenys)
淡黄腰柳莺	dan	ying	(bird species of China) lemon-rumped warbler (Phylloscopus chloronotus)
淤血斑	yu	ban	bruise; patch of bruising
淫媒罪	yin	zui	(law) procuring (offense)
淫羊藿	yin	huo	Epimedium, genus of herbaceous flowering plant, cultivated in the Far East as aphrodisiac; also called barrenwort or horny goatweed (said to resemble crushed goat's testicles)
淫词亵语	yin	yu	dirty words; dirty talk
淫词秽语	yin	yu	(idiom) obscene words; dirty talk
淮上区	huai	qu	Huaishang, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
淮北市	huai	shi	Huaibei, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
淮南子	huai	zi	miscellany of writing from the Western Han (aka Former Han)
淮南市	huai	shi	Huainan, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
淮安区	huai	qu	Huai'an, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
淮安市	huai	shi	Huai'an, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
淮海地区	huai	qu	Huaihai, economic hub around Xuzhou 徐州[Xu2 zhou1], including parts of Jiangsu, Shandong, Henan and Anhui provinces
淮海战役	huai	yi	Huaihai Campaign (Nov 1948-Jan 1949), one of the three major campaigns by the People's Liberation Army near the end of the Chinese Civil War, considered the determining battle of the war
淮滨县	huai	xian	Huaibin, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
淮阳区	huai	qu	Huaiyang, a district of Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
淮阴区	huai	qu	Huaiyin, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
深不可测	shen	ce	deep and unmeasurable (idiom); unfathomable depths; incomprehensible; enigmatic and impossible to predict
深不见底	shen	di	so deep one cannot see to the bottom; limitless
深仇大恨	shen	hen	(idiom) bitter hatred
深信不疑	shen	yi	to believe firmly without any doubt (idiom); absolute certainty about sth
深入人心	shen	xin	to enter deeply into people's hearts; to have a real impact on the people (idiom)
深入显出	shen	chu	see 深入淺出|深入浅出[shen1 ru4 qian3 chu1]
深入浅出	shen	chu	to explain a complicated subject matter in simple terms (idiom); (of language) simple and easy to understand
深呼吸	shen	xi	to take a deep breath
深圳交易所	shen	suo	Shenzhen Stock Exchange (SZSE)
深圳市	shen	shi	Shenzhen, sub-provincial city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
深圳河	shen	he	Shenzhen or Shamchun river Guangdong, the border between Hong Kong new territories and PRC
深圳证券交易所	shen	suo	Shenzhen Stock Exchange, abbr. to 深交所[Shen1 Jiao1 suo3]
深孚众望	shen	wang	to enjoy the confidence of the people; to be very popular
深层政府	shen	fu	deep state
深层次	shen	ci	deep level; deep-seated; in-depth
深层清洁	shen	jie	deep cleansing
深山老林	shen	lin	(idiom) backwoods; wilderness
深州市	shen	shi	Shenzhou, a county-level city in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
深度学习	shen	xi	deep learning (artificial intelligence)
深度尺	shen	chi	depth indicator or gauge
深得民心	shen	xin	to win the hearts of the people; to be popular among the masses
深思熟虑	shen	lv	mature reflection; after careful deliberations
深恶痛绝	shen	jue	to detest bitterly (idiom); implacable hatred; to abhor
深情厚意	shen	yi	profound love, generous friendship (idiom)
深情厚谊	shen	yi	deep friendship
深情款款	shen	kuan	loving; caring; adoring
深成岩	shen	yan	plutonic rock; abyssal rock
深明大义	shen	yi	to have a high notion of one's duty; to be highly principled
深更半夜	shen	ye	in the dead of night (idiom)
深棕色	shen	se	dark brown
深水埗	shen	bu	Sham Shui Po district of Kowloon, Hong Kong
深水港	shen	gang	deepwater port
深水炸弹	shen	dan	depth charge
深泽县	shen	xian	Shenze, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
深海围网	shen	wang	purse-seine net (fishing)
深海烟囱	shen	cong	see 海底熱泉|海底热泉[hai3 di3 re4 quan2]
深源地震	shen	zhen	deep earthquake (with epicenter more than 300 km deep)
深灰色	shen	se	dark gray
深红色	shen	se	deep red; crimson; scarlet
深耕细作	shen	zuo	deep plowing and careful cultivation
深藏若虚	shen	xu	to hide one's treasure away so that no-one knows about it (idiom); fig. modest about one's talents; to hide one's light under a bushel
深谋远略	shen	lve	a well-thought out long-term strategy
深谋远虑	shen	lv	lit. deep plans and distant thoughts; to plan far ahead (idiom)
深闭固拒	shen	ju	deep, closed and refusing (idiom); obstinate; stubborn and perverse
淳化县	chun	xian	Chunhua, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
淳安县	chun	xian	Chun'an, a county in Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
混世魔王	hun	wang	devil incarnate (idiom); fiend in human form
混为一谈	hun	tan	to confuse one thing with another (idiom); to muddle
混交林	hun	lin	mixed forest
混凝剂	hun	ji	coagulant
混凝土	hun	tu	concrete (building material)
混出名堂	hun	tang	to make it; to be somebody
混合体	hun	ti	mixture; blend
混合动力车	hun	che	hybrid vehicle
混合型汽车	hun	che	hybrid car
混合感染	hun	ran	mixed infection
混合所有制改革	hun	ge	mixed ownership reform (strategy aimed at enhancing the efficiency and competitiveness of state-owned enterprises)
混合模型	hun	xing	hybrid model
混合毒剂	hun	ji	tactical mixture of chemical agents
混合泳	hun	yong	medley (swimming)
混合物	hun	wu	mixture; composite
混合现实	hun	shi	(computing) mixed reality; MR
混名儿	hun	r	erhua variant of 混名[hun4 ming2]
混成词	hun	ci	(linguistics) portmanteau
混日子	hun	zi	to idle; to waste time
混杂物	hun	wu	adulteration; impurities
混水墙	hun	qiang	plastered masonry wall
混水摸鱼	hun	yu	variant of 渾水摸魚|浑水摸鱼[hun2 shui3 mo1 yu2]
混沌学	hun	xue	chaos theory (math.)
混沌理论	hun	lun	(math.) chaos theory
混淆是非	hun	fei	to confuse right and wrong (idiom)
混淆视听	hun	ting	to obscure the facts (idiom); to mislead the public with prevarication and deliberate falsehoods
混淆黑白	hun	bai	to confuse black and white; to say that black is white; fig. not to distinguish right from wrong
混混儿	hun	r	ruffian; hoodlum
混球儿	hun	r	erhua variant of 混球[hun2 qiu2]
混血儿	hun	er	person of mixed blood
淹头搭脑	yan	nao	listless
添加剂	tian	ji	additive; food additive
添加物	tian	wu	additive
添油加醋	tian	cu	(lit.) to add oil and vinegar (idiom); (fig.) to embellish; to exaggerate (a story, a narration etc)
添砖加瓦	tian	wa	lit. contribute bricks and tiles for a building (idiom); fig. to do one's bit to help
添福添寿	tian	shou	to increase luck and longevity
添麻烦	tian	fan	to cause trouble for sb; to inconvenience
清一色	qing	se	(mahjong) flush; a complete hand where all tiles are of the same suit; (fig.) uniformly; each and every one
清丰县	qing	xian	Qingfeng, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
清仓大甩卖	qing	mai	clearance sale; fire sale
清仓查库	qing	ku	to make an inventory of warehouses
清代通史	qing	shi	General History of the Qing dynasty, compiled under Xiao Yishan 蕭一山|萧一山[Xiao1 Yi1 shan1]
清凉油	qing	you	soothing ointment; balm
清华大学	qing	xue	Tsinghua University, Beijing; National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan
清原县	qing	xian	see 清原滿族自治縣|清原满族自治县[Qing1 yuan2 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
清原满族自治县	qing	xian	Qingyuan Manchu Autonomous County, in Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
清史列传	qing	zhuan	Biographic History of Qing Dynasty by a succession of authors, published 1928 and revised 1987, with biographies of 2,900 notable Qing commoner citizens, 80 scrolls
清史稿	qing	gao	Draft History of the Qing Dynasty, sometimes listed as number 25 or 26 of the 24 dynastic histories 二十四史[Er4 shi2 si4 Shi3], compiled under Zhao Erxun 趙爾巽|赵尔巽[Zhao4 Er3 xun4] in 1927 during the Northern Warlords period, 536 scrolls
清史馆	qing	guan	office set up in 1914 to compile official history of the Qing dynasty
清君侧	qing	ce	to remove the treacherous ministers surrounding the monarch (historically used as a pretext for rebellion)
清嗓子	qing	zi	to clear one's throat
清城区	qing	qu	Qingcheng, a district of Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
清太宗	qing	zong	posthumous title of Hong Taiji 皇太極|皇太极[Huang2 Tai4 ji2] (1592-1643), eighth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], reigned 1626-1636 as Second Khan of Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1], then founded the Qing dynasty 大清[Da4 Qing1] and reigned 1636-1643 as Emperor
清太祖	qing	zu	posthumous title of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4] (1559-1626), founder and first Khan of the Manchu Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1] (from 1616)
清官难断家务事	qing	shi	even an honest and upright official will have difficulty resolving a family dispute (proverb)
清实录	qing	lu	Qing historical archive, currently 4484 scrolls
清州市	qing	shi	Cheongju, capital of North Chungcheong Province, South Korea 忠清北道[Zhong1 qing1 bei3 dao4]
清徐县	qing	xian	Qingxu, a county in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
清心寡欲	qing	yu	(idiom) uninterested in self-indulgence; abstemious; ascetic
清拆户	qing	hu	demolition of homes; to destroy homes (for new building projects)
清政府	qing	fu	Qing government (1644-1911)
清教徒	qing	tu	Puritan
清新区	qing	qu	Qingxin, a district of Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
清明节	qing	jie	Qingming or Pure Brightness Festival or Tomb Sweeping Day, celebration for the dead (in early April)
清晰度	qing	du	definition; sharpness; clarity
清末民初	qing	chu	late Qing and early Republican China
清正廉明	qing	ming	upright and honest
清水县	qing	xian	Qingshui, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
清水墙	qing	qiang	unplastered masonry wall
清水寺	qing	si	Kiyomizu temple in east Kyōto 京都, Japan
清水河	qing	he	see 清水河縣|清水河县[Qing1 shui3 he2 Xian4]
清水河县	qing	xian	Qingshuihe, a county in Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
清江浦	qing	pu	see 清江浦區|清江浦区[Qing1 jiang1 pu3 Qu1]
清江浦区	qing	qu	Qingjiangpu, a district of Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
清汤寡水	qing	shui	meager fare; (fig.) insipid; colorless
清河区	qing	qu	Qinghe, a district of Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
清河县	qing	xian	Qinghe, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
清河门	qing	men	see 清河門區|清河门区[Qing1 he2 men2 Qu1]
清河门区	qing	qu	Qinghemen, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
清洁剂	qing	ji	detergent; cleaning solution
清洁器	qing	qi	cleaner
清洁工	qing	gong	cleaner; janitor; garbage collector
清洁球	qing	qiu	scouring ball
清洁袋	qing	dai	waste disposal bag
清津市	qing	shi	Chongjin, capital of North Hamgyeong province 咸鏡北道|咸镜北道[Xian2 jing4 bei3 dao4], North Korea
清流县	qing	xian	Qingliu, a county in Sanming City 三明市[San1 ming2 Shi4], Fujian
清涧县	qing	xian	Qingjian, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
清澈见底	qing	di	water so clear you can see the bottom
清澈透底	qing	di	(of a body of water) clear enough to see the bottom; limpid
清理队伍	qing	wu	to purge the ranks
清皇朝	qing	chao	Qing dynasty (1644-1911)
清真寺	qing	si	mosque
清算行	qing	hang	clearing bank
清红帮	qing	bang	traditional secret society, Chinese equivalent of Freemasons
清苑区	qing	qu	Qingyuan, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
清补凉	qing	liang	ching bo leung, an icy, sweet dessert soup
清谈节目	qing	mu	talk show
清远市	qing	shi	Qingyuan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
清道夫	qing	fu	(old) street cleaner; suckermouth catfish (Hypostomus plecostomus); (soccer) sweeper
清醒梦	qing	meng	lucid dream
清镇市	qing	shi	Qingzhen, a county-level city in Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
清风两袖	qing	xiu	honest and upright (idiom)
清风劲节	qing	jie	pure and high-minded (idiom)
清风明月	qing	yue	lit. cool breeze and bright moon (idiom); fig. peaceful and clear night; (allusively) living a solitary and quiet life
渊渟岳峙	yuan	zhi	(idiom) to have a serene yet formidable demeanor; to have a commanding presence
渌口区	lu	qu	Lukou, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
渐入佳境	jian	jing	(idiom) to gradually improve; to get better and better
渐冻人症	jian	zheng	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), aka motor neurone disease (MND)
渐冻症	jian	zheng	amyotrophic lateral sclerosis; ALS
渐变色	jian	se	color gradient
渐新世	jian	shi	Oligocene (geological epoch from 34m-24m years ago)
渐新统	jian	tong	Oligocene system (geology)
渐行渐远	jian	yuan	gradually proceed, gradually get further apart
渐近线	jian	xian	(math.) asymptote
渑池县	mian	xian	Mianchi, a county in Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
渔人之利	yu	li	see 漁翁之利|渔翁之利[yu2 weng1 zhi1 li4]
渔汛期	yu	qi	fishing season
渔网袜	yu	wa	fishnet stockings; fishnets
渔翁之利	yu	li	(idiom) the advantage gained by a third party when two sides are in conflict
渔船队	yu	dui	fishing fleet
渗出物	shen	wu	exudate
渗滤壶	shen	hu	coffee percolator
渗透压	shen	ya	osmotic pressure
渝中区	yu	qu	Yuzhong, the central district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
渝水区	yu	qu	Yushui, a district of Xinyu City 新余市[Xin1 yu2 Shi4], Jiangxi
渡渡鸟	du	niao	the dodo (extinct bird)
渡轮船	du	chuan	ferry ship
渣打银行	zha	hang	Standard Chartered Bank
渤海湾	bo	wan	Bohai Bay
渤澥桑田	bo	tian	lit. blue seas where once was mulberry fields (idiom, from 史記|史记[Shi3 ji4], Record of the Grand Historian); time brings great changes; life's vicissitudes
渥太华	wo	hua	Ottawa, capital of Canada
温体肉	wen	rou	meat that is not refrigerated after the animal is slaughtered
温切斯特	wen	te	Winchester (town in south England, capital of former kingdom of Wessex)
温和性	wen	xing	tenderness
温和派	wen	pai	moderate faction
温哥华	wen	hua	Vancouver (city in Canada)
温哥华岛	wen	dao	Vancouver Island
温室效应	wen	ying	greenhouse effect
温室气体	wen	ti	greenhouse gas
温家宝	wen	bao	Wen Jiabao (1942-), Premier of PRC from 2003-2013
温宿县	wen	xian	Onsu, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
温尼伯	wen	bo	Winnipeg, capital of Manitoba, Canada
温岭市	wen	shi	Wenling, a county-level city in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
温州市	wen	shi	Wenzhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
温布尔登	wen	deng	Wimbledon (district of southwest London); Wimbledon Championships (tennis)
温布尔登网球公开赛	wen	sai	Wimbledon Championships (tennis)
温布尔顿	wen	dun	Wimbledon
温布顿	wen	dun	Wimbledon
温度梯度	wen	du	temperature gradient
温度表	wen	biao	thermometer
温度计	wen	ji	thermometer; thermograph
温得和克	wen	ke	Windhoek, capital of Namibia
温情脉脉	wen	mo	full of tender feelings (idiom); tender-hearted
温故知新	wen	xin	to review the old and know the new (idiom, from the Analects); to recall the past to understand the future
温故而知新	wen	xin	to review the old and know the new (idiom, from the Analects); to recall the past to understand the future
温文尔雅	wen	ya	cultured and refined (idiom); gentle and cultivated
温斯顿	wen	dun	Winston (name)
温水煮青蛙	wen	wa	(fig.) introducing change incrementally so that it arouses little resistance; gradual change that goes unnoticed until it's too late
温江区	wen	qu	Wenjiang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
温泉县	wen	xian	Wenquan, a county in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
温泉城	wen	cheng	hot springs
温泉蛋	wen	dan	onsen tamago; hot spring egg (soft-boiled egg cooked slowly in hot spring water)
温特图尔	wen	er	Winterthur, Switzerland
温盐环流	wen	liu	(oceanography) thermohaline circulation
温良忍让	wen	rang	submissive; accommodating
温良恭俭	wen	jian	temperate, kind, courteous and restrained
温良恭俭让	wen	rang	temperate, kind, courteous, restrained and magnanimous
温跃层	wen	ceng	thermocline
温馨提示	wen	shi	Please note:; tip; hint
渭南市	wei	shi	Weinan, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
渭城区	wei	qu	Weicheng, a district of Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
渭源县	wei	xian	Weiyuan, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
渭滨区	wei	qu	Weibin, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
港交所	gang	suo	Hong Kong Stock Exchange; abbr. for 香港交易所
港务局	gang	ju	port authority
港北区	gang	qu	Gangbei, a district of Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
港区国安法	gang	fa	Hong Kong National Security Law (from 30th June 2020)
港南区	gang	qu	Gangnan, a district of Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
港口区	gang	qu	Gangkou, a district of Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
港口城市	gang	shi	port city
港澳办	gang	ban	Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office of the State Council (abbr. for 國務院港澳事務辦公室|国务院港澳事务办公室[Guo2 wu4 yuan4 Gang3 Ao4 Shi4 wu4 Ban4 gong1 shi4])
港澳台	gang	tai	Hong Kong 香港, Macao 澳門|澳门 and Taiwan 臺灣|台湾[Tai2 wan1]
港澳地区	gang	qu	Hong Kong and Macao area
港珠澳	gang	ao	Hong Kong, Zhuhai and Macau (abbr. for 香港[Xiang1 gang3] + 珠海[Zhu1 hai3] + 澳門|澳门[Ao4 men2])
港珠澳大桥	gang	qiao	Hong Kong-Zhuhai-Macau Bridge
港英政府	gang	fu	British colonial administration of Hong Kong 1837-1941 and 1945-1997
港龙航空	gang	kong	Hong Kong Dragon Airlines (operating as Dragonair), Hong Kong-based international airline
渴不可耐	ke	nai	to be so thirsty as to no longer be able to tolerate it
游乐园	you	yuan	amusement park
游乐场	you	chang	playground
游人如织	you	zhi	crowded with visitors; packed with tourists
游仙区	you	qu	Youxian, a district of Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
游侠骑士	you	shi	a knight-errant
游击战	you	zhan	guerrilla warfare
游击队	you	dui	guerrilla band
游刃有余	you	yu	handling a butcher's cleaver with ease (idiom); to do sth skillfully and easily
游吟诗人	you	ren	troubadour; bard
游园会	you	hui	garden party; fete (held in a garden or park); carnival; fair
游山玩水	you	shui	to go on a scenic tour
游戏主机	you	ji	video game console
游戏场	you	chang	playground
游戏手把	you	ba	gamepad (Tw)
游戏手柄	you	bing	gamepad
游戏机	you	ji	video game machine; video game console
游戏池	you	chi	paddling pool; wading pool
游戏王	you	wang	Yu-Gi-Oh!
游戏设备	you	bei	gaming device; controller (for computer or console)
游戏说	you	shuo	theory of free play (in Kant's philosophy)
游手好闲	you	xian	to idle about
游标卡尺	you	chi	dial calipers
游民改造	you	zao	rehabilitation of displaced persons
游泳圈	you	quan	swim ring; swim tube; (fig.) (coll.) spare tire (roll of fat around the waist)
游泳池	you	chi	swimming pool
游泳衣	you	yi	swimsuit; bathing costume
游泳裤	you	ku	see 泳褲|泳裤[yong3 ku4]
游泳镜	you	jing	swimming goggles
游泳馆	you	guan	indoor swimming pool; natatorium
游移不定	you	ding	to oscillate without pause (idiom); to fluctuate; (of thoughts) to wander
游艺会	you	hui	folk festival; fair; carnival
游艺团	you	tuan	group of actors or acrobats at a fair; theatrical troupe
游艺场	you	chang	place of entertainment
游街示众	you	zhong	to parade (a prisoner) through the streets
游览区	you	qu	tourist regions; sightseeing area
游说团	you	tuan	lobby group
游说团体	you	ti	lobby group
游说集团	you	tuan	lobby group
游锡堃	you	kun	Yu Shyi-kun (1948-) Taiwanese politician
渺乎其微	miao	wei	remote and insignificant (idiom)
渺无人烟	miao	yan	remote and uninhabited (idiom); deserted; God-forsaken
渺无音信	miao	xin	to receive no news whatsoever about sb
渺渺茫茫	miao	mang	uncertain; unknown; fuzzy
湄公河	mei	he	Mekong River
湄公河三角洲	mei	zhou	Mekong River Delta
湄南河	mei	he	Chao Phraya River (aka Menam), the main river of Thailand
湄洲岛	mei	dao	Meizhou Island (Putian)
湄潭县	mei	xian	Meitan, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
湖光山色	hu	se	scenic lakes and mountain (idiom); beautiful lake and mountain landscape
湖北省	hu	sheng	Hubei Province, capital Wuhan 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4] (short name 鄂[E4])
湖北花楸	hu	qiu	Chinese Rowan tree; Sorbus hupehensis or Hupeh rowan
湖南大学	hu	xue	Hunan University
湖南省	hu	sheng	Hunan Province, capital Changsha 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4] (short name 湘[Xiang1])
湖口县	hu	xian	Hukou, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
湖州市	hu	shi	Huzhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
湖沼学	hu	xue	limnology
湖滨区	hu	qu	Hubin, a district of Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
湖里区	hu	qu	Huli, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
湘东区	xiang	qu	Xiangdong, a district of Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
湘乡市	xiang	shi	Xiangxiang, a county-level city in Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
湘妃竹	xiang	zhu	same as 斑竹[ban1 zhu2], mottled bamboo, since according to legend the spots on mottled bamboo are marks left by the tears shed by two of King Shun's 舜[Shun4] concubines (Ehuang 娥皇[E2 huang2] and Nüying 女英[Nu:3 ying1], known as the Concubines of the Xiang 湘妃[Xiang1 Fei1]) upon learning of his death
湘桂运河	xiang	he	Hunan-Guangxi Canal, another name for Lingqu 靈渠|灵渠[Ling2 qu2], canal in Xing'an County 興安|兴安[Xing1 an1], Guangxi
湘桥区	xiang	qu	Xiangqiao, a district of Chaozhou City 潮州市[Chao2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
湘潭县	xiang	xian	Xiangtan, a county in Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
湘潭市	xiang	shi	Xiangtan, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
湘西州	xiang	zhou	see 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
湘阴县	xiang	xian	Xiangyin, a county in Yueyang City 岳陽市|岳阳市[Yue4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
湛江市	zhan	shi	Zhanjiang, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
湛河区	zhan	qu	Zhanhe, a district of Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
湟中区	huang	qu	Huangzhong, a district of Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
湟源县	huang	xian	Huangyuan, a county in Xining City 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4], Qinghai
湮没无闻	yan	wen	to pass into oblivion
湾沚区	wan	qu	Wanzhi, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
湿哒哒	shi	da	variant of 濕答答|湿答答[shi1 da1 da1]
湿润剂	shi	ji	moistener; wetting agent
湿渌渌	shi	lu	variant of 濕漉漉|湿漉漉[shi1 lu4 lu4]
湿漉漉	shi	lu	damp; clammy; dripping wet
湿答答	shi	da	soaking wet
溃不成军	kui	jun	(idiom) (of troops) to be utterly routed and dispersed
溆浦县	xu	xian	Xupu, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
源代码	yuan	ma	source code (computing)
源器官	yuan	guan	source organ
源城区	yuan	qu	Yuancheng, a district of Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
源氏物语	yuan	yu	The Tale of Genji, classic Japanese novel by Murasaki Shikibu (c. 11th century)
源汇区	yuan	qu	Yuanhui, a district of Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
源源不断	yuan	duan	(idiom) in an unending stream; continuous
源源本本	yuan	ben	variant of 原原本本[yuan2 yuan2 ben3 ben3]
源程序	yuan	xu	source code (computing)
源赖朝	yuan	chao	MINAMOTO no Yoritomo (1147-1199), Japanese warlord and founder of the Kamakura shogunate 鐮倉幕府|镰仓幕府[Lian2 cang1 mu4 fu3]
源远流长	yuan	chang	(idiom) of long standing; with a long history; stretching back to ancient times
溘先朝露	ke	lu	the morning dew will swiftly dissipate (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
溜之大吉	liu	ji	to steal away; to beat it
溜冰场	liu	chang	ice rink; skating rink
溜冰鞋	liu	xie	skating shoes; ice skates; roller skates
溜旱冰	liu	bing	roller blading (sport)
溜溜球	liu	qiu	yo-yo (loanword)
溜肩膀	liu	bang	sloping shoulders; irresponsible; work-shy
溜边儿	liu	r	to keep to the edge (of path, river etc); (fig.) to keep out of trouble; to avoid getting involved
溜须拍马	liu	ma	to smooth whiskers and pat a horse's bottom (idiom); to use flatter to get what one wants; to toady; boot-licking
溢于言表	yi	biao	to exhibit one's feelings in one's speech
溢出效应	yi	ying	spillover effect
溢流孔	yi	kong	bleed hole; overflow pipe; spill vent
溢缴款	yi	kuan	credit card overpayment
溢美之词	yi	ci	flattering words; inflated praise
溧水区	li	qu	Lishui, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
溧阳市	li	shi	Liyang, a county-level city in Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
溪湖区	xi	qu	Xihu, a district of Benxi City 本溪市[Ben3 xi1 Shi4], Liaoning
溪黄草	xi	cao	Rabdosia lophanthoides (no common name), herb plant of Lamiaceae family (together with mint and lavender), used in TCM
溴化氰	xiu	qing	cyanogen bromide
溴化钾	xiu	jia	potassium bromide
溴单质	xiu	zhi	molecular bromine
溶小体	rong	ti	see 溶酶體|溶酶体[rong2 mei2 ti3]
溶小体储积症	rong	zheng	lysosomal storage disease (LSD)
溶源性	rong	xing	lysogeny (reproduction cycle of bacteriophage 噬菌體|噬菌体[shi4 jun1 ti3])
溶蚀作用	rong	yong	dissolving; erosion by groundwater; corrosion
溶血病	rong	bing	hemolytic disease of newborn (breakdown of red blood cells due to alloimmune reaction between mother and fetus)
溶解度	rong	du	solubility
溶解性	rong	xing	soluble; solubility
溶酶体	rong	ti	lysosome
滁州市	chu	shi	Chuzhou, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
滂沱大雨	pang	yu	torrents of rain (idiom)
滇藏川	dian	chuan	Yunnan, Tibet and Sichuan
滋养层	zi	ceng	trophoblastic layer (attaches fertilized ovum to the uterus); trophoderm
滋水枪	zi	qiang	water gun
滋补品	zi	pin	tonic; invigorant
滑天下之大稽	hua	ji	to be the most ridiculous thing in the world (idiom)
滑旱冰	hua	bing	(roller)blading; roller skating; inline skating
滑板车	hua	che	kick scooter; push scooter
滑板鞋	hua	xie	skate shoes
滑步机	hua	ji	elliptical trainer
滑水道	hua	dao	water slide
滑溜溜	hua	liu	smooth; slick; slippery
滑盖手机	hua	ji	slider phone
滑石粉	hua	fen	talcum powder
滑翔伞	hua	san	paraglider (equipment); paragliding (sport)
滑翔机	hua	ji	glider
滑翔翼	hua	yi	hang glider (equipment); hang gliding (sport)
滑行道	hua	dao	taxiway (at airport)
滑铁卢	hua	lu	Waterloo (Belgium); Battle of Waterloo (1815); (fig.) a defeat
滑铁卢火车站	hua	zhan	Waterloo Station (London)
滑雪场	hua	chang	ski slopes; ski resort
滑雪术	hua	shu	skiing
滑雪板	hua	ban	ski; CL:副[fu4]; snowboard
滑雪索道	hua	dao	ski-lift
滑雪运动	hua	dong	skiing
滑鼠垫	hua	dian	mouse pad (Tw)
滑鼠手	hua	shou	carpal tunnel syndrome (Tw)
滑鼠蛇	hua	she	Oriental rat snake (Ptyas mucosus)
滔天大罪	tao	zui	heinous crime
滔滔不绝	tao	jue	(idiom) to produce a torrent of words; to talk on and on
滕州市	teng	shi	Tengzhou, a county-level city in Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
滕斯贝格	teng	ge	Tønsberg (city in Vestfold, Norway)
滕王阁	teng	ge	Tengwang Tower in Nanchang, Jiangxi; one of three famous pagodas in China along with Yueyang Tower 岳陽樓|岳阳楼[Yue4 yang2 Lou2] in Yueyang, north Hunan, and Yellow Crane Tower 黃鶴樓|黄鹤楼[Huang2 he4 Lou2] in Wuhan, Hubei
滚刀块	gun	kuai	chunks obtained by repeatedly cutting a vegetable diagonally and rotating the vegetable after each cut
滚刀肉	gun	rou	annoying person; troublemaker; pain in the neck
滚动条	gun	tiao	(computing) scroll bar
滚子轴承	gun	cheng	roller bearing
滚床单	gun	dan	(coll.) to have sex
滚彩蛋	gun	dan	egg rolling (rolling of decorated, hard-boiled eggs down hillsides by children at Easter)
滚油煎心	gun	xin	to suffer mental anguish (idiom)
滚犊子	gun	zi	(dialect) Beat it!; Scram!; Fuck off!
滚珠轴承	gun	cheng	ball bearing
滚瓜溜圆	gun	yuan	(of animals) round and fat
滚瓜烂熟	gun	shu	lit. ripe as a melon that rolls from its vine (idiom); fig. to know fluently; to know sth inside out; to know sth by heart
滚石上山	gun	shan	(fig.) to press ahead with a difficult undertaking through sustained effort
滚筒刷	gun	shua	paint roller
滚装船	gun	chuan	roll-on, roll-off ship (RORO ship); vessel designed to load and unload vehicles by driving them on and off
滞期费	zhi	fei	demurrage charge (shipping) (currency)
滞留锋	zhi	feng	stationary front (meteorology)
滞纳金	zhi	jin	overdue fine; late fine
满不在乎	man	hu	not in the least concerned (idiom); reckless; couldn't give a damn about it
满世界	man	jie	everywhere; across the world
满剌加	man	jia	Ming Dynasty name for modern day Malacca; see also 馬六甲|马六甲[Ma3 liu4 jia3]
满口之乎者也	man	ye	mouth full of literary phrases; to spout the classics
满口应承	man	cheng	to promise readily
满口称赞	man	zan	to praise profusely
满口答应	man	ying	to readily consent
满口胡柴	man	chai	to spout nonsense; to bullshit endlessly
满口胡言	man	yan	to spout nonsense; to bullshit endlessly
满口脏话	man	hua	to pour out obscenities; filthy mouthed
满口谎言	man	yan	to pour out lies
满嘴喷粪	man	fen	to talk bullshit
满嘴起疱	man	pao	to have lips covered in blisters
满嘴跑火车	man	che	(idiom) to have a glib tongue; to talk big
满嘴跑舌头	man	tou	to talk without thinking; to drivel
满园春色	man	se	everything in the garden is lovely
满地可	man	ke	Montreal (chiefly used in Hong Kong and the Chinese community in Canada) (from Cantonese 滿地可|满地可 Mun5 dei6 ho2)
满地找牙	man	ya	to be looking for one's teeth all over the floor; (fig.) to get beaten up badly; to beat the crap out of (sb)
满场一致	man	zhi	unanimous
满坐寂然	man	ran	the whole audience silent with expectation
满坑满谷	man	gu	(idiom) all over the place; in every nook and cranny; packed to the rafters
满城区	man	qu	Mancheng, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
满城尽带黄金甲	man	jia	Curse of the Golden Flower (2007), period drama movie by Zhang Yimou
满城风雨	man	yu	lit. wind and rain sweeping through the town (idiom); fig. a big scandal; an uproar
满堂彩	man	cai	everyone present applauds; universal acclaim; a standing ovation
满堂灌	man	guan	cramming (as a teaching method); rote learning
满堂红	man	hong	success across the board; victory in everything one touches
满天星	man	xing	Baby's Breath; Gypsophila paniculata
满天繁星	man	xing	lit. whole sky, a multitude of stars
满天飞	man	fei	to rush around everywhere; always active
满头大汗	man	han	brow beaded with sweat; perspiring freely
满山遍野	man	ye	covering the whole land; over hills and dales
满当当	man	dang	brim full; completely packed
满意度	man	du	degree of satisfaction
满打满算	man	suan	taking everything into account (idiom); when all is said and done
满招损谦受益	man	yi	(idiom) complacency leads to loss, modesty brings profit; pride comes before a fall
满月酒	man	jiu	banquet to celebrate a baby reaching one month of age
满汉全席	man	xi	the Manchu Han imperial feast, a legendary banquet in the Qing dynasty; (fig.) a sumptuous banquet
满江红	man	hong	Man Jiang Hong (Chinese poems)
满洲国	man	guo	Manchukuo
满洲里	man	li	see 滿洲里市|满洲里市[Man3 zhou1 li3 Shi4]
满洲里市	man	shi	Manzhouli, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
满清政府	man	fu	Manchurian Qing government
满满当当	man	dang	brim full; completely packed
满满登登	man	deng	ample; extremely abundant
满登登	man	deng	brim full; filled to overflowing
满盘皆输	man	shu	see 一著不慎，滿盤皆輸|一着不慎，满盘皆输[yi1 zhao1 bu4 shen4 , man3 pan2 jie1 shu1]
满目琳琅	man	lang	see 琳瑯滿目|琳琅满目[lin2 lang2 man3 mu4]
满目疮痍	man	yi	a scene of devastation meets the eye everywhere one looks (idiom)
满福堡	man	bao	(Tw) McDonald's McMuffin or similar breakfast sandwich made with an English muffin
满脸生花	man	hua	all smiles; beaming from ear to ear
满脸风尘	man	chen	lit. with a face full of dust; showing the hardships of travel (idiom)
满腔热忱	man	chen	full of enthusiasm
满腹牢骚	man	sao	lit. belly full of complaints (idiom); discontent; always moaning and complaining
满腹经纶	man	lun	full of political wisdom (idiom); politically astute; with encyclopedic experience of state policy
满足感	man	gan	sense of satisfaction
满身尘埃	man	ai	dusty
满载而归	man	gui	(idiom) to return from a rewarding journey
满门抄斩	man	zhan	to execute the whole family and confiscate their property
满面春风	man	feng	(idiom) radiant with happiness; beaming
滤光镜	lv	jing	(photography) filter
滤压壶	lv	hu	French press; press pot
滤尘器	lv	qi	dust filter
滤毒通风装置	lv	zhi	filtration equipment
滤波器	lv	qi	signal filter
滤清器	lv	qi	a filter
滤色镜	lv	jing	color filter
滥套子	lan	zi	platitude; pointless talk
滥好人	lan	ren	sb who tries to be on good terms with everyone
滥杀无辜	lan	gu	willfully slaughter the innocent (idiom)
滥用权力	lan	li	abuse of power
滥用职权	lan	quan	abuse of power
滥砍滥伐	lan	fa	wanton destruction of forested lands
滥竽充数	lan	shu	lit. to play the yu 竽 mouth organ to make up numbers (idiom); fig. to make up the numbers with inferior products; to masquerade as having an ability; token member of a group
滦南县	luan	xian	Luannan, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
滦州市	luan	shi	Luanzhou, a county-level city in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
滦平县	luan	xian	Luanping, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
滨城区	bin	qu	Bincheng, a district of Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
滨州市	bin	shi	Binzhou, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
滨江区	bin	qu	Binjiang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
滨海县	bin	xian	Binhai, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
滨海新区	bin	qu	Binhai New District, subprovincial district of Tianjin
滨海边疆区	bin	qu	Primorsky Krai (Russian territory whose administrative center is Vladivostok 符拉迪沃斯托克)
滨湖区	bin	qu	Binhu, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
滨田靖一	bin	yi	HAMADA Yasukazu (1955-), Japanese defense minister from 2008
滩头堡	tan	bao	beachhead (military)
滴定管	di	guan	burette
滴水不漏	di	lou	lit. not one drop of water can leak out; watertight; rigorous (argument)
滴水不羼	di	chan	not diluted by one drop; hundred percent
滴水嘴兽	di	shou	gargoyle (architecture)
滴水石穿	di	chuan	dripping water penetrates the stone (idiom); constant perseverance yields success; You can achieve your aim if you try hard without giving up.; Persistent effort overcomes any difficulty.
滴水穿石	di	shi	dripping water penetrates the stone (idiom); constant perseverance yields success; You can achieve your aim if you try hard without giving up.; Persistent effort overcomes any difficulty.
滴溜圆	di	yuan	completely round
滴溜溜	di	liu	whirling; spinning around and around; round and plump (e.g. of fruit)
滴滴出行	di	xing	Didi Chuxing Technology Co., aka DiDi, app-based transportation company, headquartered in Beijing, founded in 2012
滴滴涕	di	ti	(loanword) DDT (dichlorodiphenyltrichloroethane)
滴漏计时器	di	qi	hourglass; water clock; clepsydra
滴眼液	di	ye	eye drops
滴答声	di	sheng	tick (tock)
滴虫病	di	bing	trichomoniasis (medicine)
滴道区	di	qu	Didao, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
滴酒不沾	di	zhan	never to touch a drop of alcohol
滴里嘟噜	di	lu	cumbersome
滴里耷拉	di	la	hanging down loosely; dangling in disorder
漂亮话	piao	hua	fine-sounding but empty words
漂流瓶	piao	ping	message in a bottle
漂流者	piao	zhe	drifter; whitewater rafter
漂白剂	piao	ji	bleach
漂白水	piao	shui	bleach
漂白粉	piao	fen	bleaching powder
漆树科	qi	ke	Anacardiaceae, plant family including lac tree (Rhus vernicifera) 漆樹|漆树[qi1 shu4]
漆皮鞋	qi	xie	patent leather shoes
漆黑一团	qi	tuan	pitch-black; (fig.) to be completely in the dark
漏斗云	lou	yun	funnel cloud
漏水转浑天仪	lou	yi	water-driven armillary sphere (Zhang Heng's famous astronomical apparatus)
漏泄天机	lou	ji	to divulge the will of heaven (idiom); to leak a secret; to let the cat out of the bag
漏洞百出	lou	chu	(of an argument, theory etc) full of flaws (idiom)
漏网之鱼	lou	yu	(lit.) a fish that escaped the net (idiom); (fig.) sb or sth that slips through the net
漏网游鱼	lou	yu	see 漏網之魚|漏网之鱼[lou4 wang3 zhi1 yu2]
漏脯充饥	lou	ji	(lit.) to eat rotten meat to assuage hunger (idiom); (fig.) to disregard long-term consequences for short-term benefits; shortsighted
演出地点	yan	dian	performance place; CL:處|处[chu4]
演出者	yan	zhe	performer
演化支	yan	zhi	clade (biology)
演员阵容	yan	rong	cast (of a movie etc); lineup of performers; troupe
演唱会	yan	hui	vocal recital or concert
演奏者	yan	zhe	performer; musician
演播室	yan	shi	broadcasting studio
演示文稿	yan	gao	(PPT etc) presentation
演算法	yan	fa	algorithm (Tw)
演绎法	yan	fa	deductive reasoning
演艺人员	yan	yuan	entertainer; performer
演艺圈	yan	quan	show business
演艺界	yan	jie	the entertainment world; show business
演讲家	yan	jia	orator
演说者	yan	zhe	orator; speaker
漠不关心	mo	xin	not the least bit concerned; completely indifferent
漠河市	mo	shi	Mohe, a county-level city in Daxing'anling Prefecture 大興安嶺地區|大兴安岭地区[Da4 xing1 an1 ling3 Di4 qu1], Heilongjiang
漠然置之	mo	zhi	to set to one side and ignore (idiom); quite indifferent; cold and uncaring
漫不经心	man	xin	careless; heedless; absent-minded
漫不经意	man	yi	careless; unconcerned
漫天要价	man	jia	to ask for sky-high prices
漫天遍地	man	di	lit. to fill the whole sky and cover the land (idiom); fig. everywhere; as far as the eye can see
漫天遍野	man	ye	lit. to fill the whole sky and cover the land; everywhere; as far as the eye can see
漫天飞舞	man	wu	(of snow etc) to fill the sky
漫山遍野	man	ye	lit. covering the mountains and the plains (idiom); fig. as far as the eye can see; covering everything
漫无目的	man	di	aimless; at random
漫无边际	man	ji	extremely vast; boundless; limitless
漫步者	man	zhe	rambler; a person strolling about
漫漫长夜	man	ye	endless night (idiom); fig. long suffering
漫画家	man	jia	cartoon writer (from Japanese mangaka)
漯河市	luo	shi	Luohe, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
漱口水	shu	shui	mouthwash
漳州市	zhang	shi	Zhangzhou, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
漳平市	zhang	shi	Zhangping, a county-level city in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
漳浦县	zhang	xian	Zhangpu, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
漾濞县	yang	xian	see 漾濞彝族自治縣|漾濞彝族自治县[Yang4 bi4 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
漾濞彝族自治县	yang	xian	Yangbi Yi Autonomous County, in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
潇潇细雨	xiao	yu	soft, misty rain
潍坊市	wei	shi	Weifang, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
潍城区	wei	qu	Weicheng, a district of Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
潘基文	pan	wen	Ban Ki Moon (1944-), Korean diplomat, UN secretary-general 2007-2016
潘塔纳尔	pan	er	Pantanal (wetland area in Brazil)
潘多拉	pan	la	Pandora
潘多拉魔盒	pan	he	a Pandora's box
潘太克斯	pan	si	Pentax (brand name)
潘朵拉	pan	la	Pandora
潘趣酒	pan	jiu	(loanword) punch (drink)
潘金莲	pan	lian	Pan Jinlian (name lit. Golden Lotus), heroine of Ming dynasty vernacular novel Jinpingmei or the Golden Lotus 金瓶梅
潘集区	pan	qu	Panji, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
潜伏期	qian	qi	incubation period (of disease)
潜力股	qian	gu	stock that has potential to increase in value; (fig.) sb with good prospects
潜台词	qian	ci	unspoken dialogue in a play, left for the audience to infer; subtext; (fig.) implicit assertion
潜在威胁	qian	xie	potential threat; potential menace
潜在媒介	qian	jie	potential vector
潜山市	qian	shi	Qianshan, a county-level city in Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
潜意识	qian	shi	unconscious mind; subconscious mind; subconsciousness
潜望镜	qian	jing	periscope
潜水刀	qian	dao	dive knife
潜水员	qian	yuan	diver; frogman
潜水器	qian	qi	submersible
潜水夫病	qian	bing	bends
潜水夫症	qian	zheng	bends
潜水服	qian	fu	diving suit; wetsuit
潜水者	qian	zhe	(underwater) diver
潜水艇	qian	ting	a submarine
潜水衣	qian	yi	diving suit
潜江市	qian	shi	Qianjiang sub-prefecture level city in Hubei
潜神默记	qian	ji	to devote oneself to a task in silence (idiom)
潜移默化	qian	hua	imperceptible influence; to influence secretly
潜育土	qian	tu	gleysol (soil taxonomy)
潜艇堡	qian	bao	submarine sandwich
潜规则	qian	ze	unspoken rules (usually ones that codify improper behaviors such as leveraging guanxi to get favorable treatment, or coercing employees for sexual favors)
潞城区	lu	qu	Lucheng, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
潞州区	lu	qu	Luzhou, a district of Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
潢川县	huang	xian	Huangchuan, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
潭柘寺	tan	si	Tanzhe Temple
潮南区	chao	qu	Chaonan, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
潮安区	chao	qu	Chao'an, a district of Chaozhou City 潮州市[Chao2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
潮州市	chao	shi	Chaozhou, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
潮汐电站	chao	zhan	tidal power station
潮汐能	chao	neng	tidal power; tidal energy
潮汕话	chao	hua	Chaoshan or Teo-Swa, a Southern Min language spoken by the Teochew people of the Chaoshan region 潮汕[Chao2 shan4]
潮解性	chao	xing	deliquescent
潮间带	chao	dai	intertidal zone
潮阳区	chao	qu	Chaoyang, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
潸然泪下	shan	xia	to shed silent tears (idiom)
潼关县	tong	xian	Tongguan, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
潼南区	tong	qu	Tongnan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
澄城县	cheng	xian	Chengcheng, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
澄江市	cheng	shi	Chengjiang, a county-level city in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
澄海区	cheng	qu	Chenghai, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
澄迈县	cheng	xian	Chengmai County, Hainan
澎湖列岛	peng	dao	Pescadores Islands, Taiwan
澎湖县	peng	xian	Penghu county (Pescadores Islands), Taiwan
澎湖岛	peng	dao	Pescadores Islands, Penghu county, Taiwan
澎湖群岛	peng	dao	Penghu or Pescadores, archipelago of 90 islands to west of Taiwan
澜沧县	lan	xian	see 瀾滄拉祜族自治縣|澜沧拉祜族自治县[Lan2 cang1 La1 hu4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
澜沧拉祜族自治县	lan	xian	Lancang Lahu Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
澜沧江	lan	jiang	Lancang River, the upper course (in southwestern China) of the Mekong River 湄公河[Mei2 gong1 He2]
澡身浴德	zao	de	to bathe the body and cleanse virtue (idiom); to improve oneself by meditation; cleanliness is next to godliness
澳南沙锥	ao	zhui	(bird species of China) Latham's snipe (Gallinago hardwickii)
澳大利亚	ao	ya	Australia
澳大利亚国立大学	ao	xue	Australian National University (ANU), Canberra
澳大利亚洲	ao	zhou	(geography) the Australian continent (Australia, Tasmania, and New Guinea)
澳大利亚联邦	ao	bang	Commonwealth of Australia
澳大利亚首都特区	ao	qu	Australian Capital Territory
澳式橄榄球	ao	qiu	Australian rules football; Aussie rules
澳新军团	ao	tuan	Australian and New Zealand Army Corps (ANZAC)
澳新军团日	ao	ri	Anzac Day
澳新界	ao	jie	Australasian realm
澳洲坚果	ao	guo	macadamia nut
澳洲小鹦鹉	ao	wu	lorikeet
澳洲广播电台	ao	tai	Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC), Australian state-run broadcaster
澳洲野犬	ao	quan	dingo (Canis dingo)
澳洲鳗鲡	ao	li	short-finned eel (Anguilla australis)
澳门国际机场	ao	chang	Macau International Airport
澳门市	ao	shi	Municipality of Macau
澳门立法会	ao	hui	Legislative Council of Macao
激光二极管	ji	guan	laser diode
激光唱片	ji	pian	compact disk; CD; CL:片[pian4],張|张[zhang1]
激光器	ji	qi	laser
激光打印机	ji	ji	laser printer
激光笔	ji	bi	laser pointer
激光雷达	ji	da	lidar
激励机制	ji	zhi	incentive mechanism; incentives
激将法	ji	fa	indirect, psychological method of getting sb to do as one wishes (e.g. questioning whether they are up to the task)
激流回旋	ji	xuan	canoe slalom
激浊扬清	ji	qing	lit. drain away filth and bring in fresh water (idiom); fig. dispel evil and usher in good; eliminate vice and exalt virtue
激进主义	ji	yi	radicalism
激进分子	ji	zi	variant of 激進分子|激进分子[ji1 jin4 fen4 zi3]
激进化	ji	hua	radicalization; to radicalize
激进武装	ji	zhuang	armed extremists
濂溪区	lian	qu	Lianxi, a district of Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
濉溪县	sui	xian	Suixi, a county in Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
濒危物种	bin	zhong	endangered species
濠江区	hao	qu	Haojiang, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
濡沫涸辙	ru	zhe	to help each other out in hard times (idiom)
濮阳县	pu	xian	Puyang, a county in Puyang City 濮陽市|濮阳市[Pu2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
濮阳市	pu	shi	Puyang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
瀍河回族区	chan	qu	Chanhe Hui District, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
灌云县	guan	xian	Guanyun, a county in Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
灌南县	guan	xian	Guannan, a county in Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
灌木丛	guan	cong	shrub; shrubbery
灌木林	guan	lin	shrubbery; low wood
灌溉渠	guan	qu	irrigation channel
灌米汤	guan	tang	to flatter; to butter sb up
灌迷魂汤	guan	tang	to butter sb up; to try to impress sb
灌阳县	guan	xian	Guanyang, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
灞桥区	ba	qu	Baqiao, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
火上加油	huo	you	to add oil to the fire (idiom); fig. to aggravate a situation; to enrage people and make matters worse
火上浇油	huo	you	to pour oil on the fire (idiom); fig. to aggravate a situation; to enrage people and make matters worse
火中取栗	huo	li	lit. to pull chestnuts out of the fire (idiom); fig. to be sb's cat's-paw
火冒三丈	huo	zhang	to get really angry
火冠雀	huo	que	(bird species of China) fire-capped tit (Cephalopyrus flammiceps)
火力发电	huo	dian	thermal power generation
火力发电厂	huo	chang	fired power plant (i.e. fired by coal, oil or gas)
火化场	huo	chang	crematorium
火卫一	huo	yi	Phobos (moon of Mars), aka Mars I
火卫二	huo	er	Deimos (moon of Mars), aka Mars II
火地群岛	huo	dao	Tierra del Fuego, Patagonia
火奴鲁鲁	huo	lu	Honolulu, capital of Hawaii; also called 檀香山
火尾太阳鸟	huo	niao	(bird species of China) fire-tailed sunbird (Aethopyga ignicauda)
火尾希鹛	huo	mei	(bird species of China) red-tailed minla (Minla ignotincta)
火尾绿鹛	huo	mei	(bird species of China) fire-tailed myzornis (Myzornis pyrrhoura)
火山口	huo	kou	volcanic crater
火山学	huo	xue	volcanology
火山岛	huo	dao	volcanic island
火山岩	huo	yan	volcanic rock
火山带	huo	dai	volcanic belt
火山毛	huo	mao	(geology) Pele's hair
火山活动	huo	dong	volcanic activity; volcanism
火山灰	huo	hui	volcanic ash
火山灰土	huo	tu	andosol (soil taxonomy)
火山爆发	huo	fa	volcanic eruption
火山爆发指数	huo	shu	volcanic explosivity index (VEI)
火山砾	huo	li	lapillus; lapilli
火山碎屑流	huo	liu	pyroclastic flow
火山豆	huo	dou	macadamia nut
火影忍者	huo	zhe	Naruto, manga and anime series
火德星君	huo	jun	spirit of the planet Mars
火成岩	huo	yan	igneous rock (geology); volcanic rock
火成碎屑	huo	xie	pyroclastic
火把节	huo	jie	Torch Festival
火折子	huo	zi	traditional portable firelighter (bamboo tube of smoldering tinder)
火斑鸠	huo	jiu	(bird species of China) red collared dove; red turtle dove (Streptopelia tranquebarica)
火星人	huo	ren	Martian
火星哥	huo	ge	nickname of American singer Bruno Mars
火星子	huo	zi	(coll.) spark; ember
火星快车	huo	che	Mars Express, a European Space Agency spacecraft launched in 2003
火星撞地球	huo	qiu	clash that leaves both sides shattered
火星文	huo	wen	lit. Martian language; fig. Internet slang used to communicate secret messages that the general public or government can't understand
火曜日	huo	ri	Tuesday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
火枪手	huo	shou	gunman; musketeer
火柴人	huo	ren	stick figure; stick person
火树银花	huo	hua	display of fireworks and lanterns
火流星	huo	xing	(astronomy) bolide; fireball
火浣布	huo	bu	asbestos cloth
火海刀山	huo	shan	see 刀山火海[dao1 shan1 huo3 hai3]
火炎焱燚	huo	yi	hot (i.e. popular) (emphatic form of 火[huo3]) (neologism c. 2016)
火炬手	huo	shou	(lit. and fig.) torchbearer
火烈鸟	huo	niao	flamingo
火烧云	huo	yun	nuée ardente; hot cloud of volcanic ash
火烧火燎	huo	liao	restless with anxiety; to feel unbearably painful or hot
火烧眉毛	huo	mao	lit. the fire burns one's eyebrows (idiom); fig. desperate situation; extreme emergency
火焰喷射器	huo	qi	flamethrower
火焰山	huo	shan	Mountain of Flames of legend; fig. insurmountable obstacle; Mountain of Flames in Turpan depression in Xinjiang
火眼金睛	huo	jing	piercing eyes; discerning eyes
火筷子	huo	zi	fire tongs; hair curling tongs
火箭军	huo	jun	Rocket Force, branch of the PLA responsible for tactical and strategic missiles
火箭弹	huo	dan	rocket (artillery)
火箭推进榴弹	huo	dan	rocket-propelled grenade (RPG)
火箭炮	huo	pao	rocket artillery
火箭筒	huo	tong	bazooka; rocket launcher
火绒草	huo	cao	edelweiss (Leontopodium alpinum)
火腿肠	huo	chang	ham sausage
火花塞	huo	sai	spark plug
火药味	huo	wei	smell of gunpowder; (fig.) combative tone; belligerence
火药味甚浓	huo	nong	strong smell of gunpowder; fig. tense situation; standoff
火葬场	huo	chang	crematorium
火蜥蜴	huo	yi	salamander
火车头	huo	tou	train engine; locomotive
火车票	huo	piao	train ticket
火车站	huo	zhan	train station
火轮船	huo	chuan	(old) steamboat
火辣辣	huo	la	scorching hot; (of a burn or other injury) painful; burning; (of one's mood) agitated; heated; intense
火鸡面	huo	mian	buldak ramen (a type of spicy Korean instant noodles)
火鹤花	huo	hua	flamingo lily (Anthurium andraeanum)
火龙果	huo	guo	red pitaya; dragon fruit; dragon pearl fruit (genus Hylocereus)
灭此朝食	mie	shi	lit. not to have breakfast until the enemy is destroyed; anxious to do battle (idiom)
灭活疫苗	mie	miao	inactivated vaccine
灭火器	mie	qi	fire extinguisher
灭种罪	mie	zui	genocide
灭绝人性	mie	xing	(idiom) to be devoid of all humanity; inhuman; bestial
灭绝种族	mie	zu	to commit genocide
灭虫宁	mie	ning	bephenium, anti-parasitic worm medicine
灭音器	mie	qi	muffler (of an internal combustion engine)
灭顶之灾	mie	zai	(idiom) catastrophic disaster; devastating calamity
灭鼠药	mie	yao	rat poison
灯下黑	deng	hei	(lit.) it's dark right under the lamp; (fig.) people tend to overlook things right under their noses
灯塔守	deng	shou	lighthouse keeper
灯塔市	deng	shi	Dengta, a county-level city in Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
灯塔水母	deng	mu	immortal jellyfish (Turritopsis dohrnii)
灯心草	deng	cao	rush (botany); Juncaceae
灯火通明	deng	ming	brightly lit
灯笼果	deng	guo	cape gooseberry; Peruvian ground-cherry; Physalis peruviana
灯笼花	deng	hua	Chinese enkianthus
灯笼裤	deng	ku	bloomers; plus fours; knickerbockers
灯笼鱼	deng	yu	lantern fish
灯红酒绿	deng	lv	lanterns red, wine green (idiom); feasting and pleasure-seeking; debauched and corrupt environment
灯芯绒	deng	rong	(textiles) corduroy
灯芯草	deng	cao	see 燈心草|灯心草[deng1 xin1 cao3]
灯草绒	deng	rong	see 燈芯絨|灯芯绒[deng1 xin1 rong2]
灰不喇唧	hui	ji	dull gray; gray and loathsome
灰不溜丢	hui	diu	gloomy and dull (idiom); boring and gray; unpleasantly murky
灰不溜秋	hui	qiu	see 灰不溜丟|灰不溜丢[hui1 bu5 liu1 diu1]
灰伯劳	hui	lao	(bird species of China) northern shrike (Lanius borealis)
灰冠鸦雀	hui	que	(bird species of China) Przevalski's parrotbill; rusty-throated parrotbill (Suthora przewalskii)
灰冠鹟莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) grey-crowned warbler (Phylloscopus tephrocephalus)
灰卷尾	hui	wei	(bird species of China) ashy drongo (Dicrurus leucophaeus)
灰喉山椒鸟	hui	niao	(bird species of China) grey-chinned minivet (Pericrocotus solaris)
灰喉柳莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) ashy-throated warbler (Phylloscopus maculipennis)
灰喉针尾雨燕	hui	yan	(bird species of China) silver-backed needletail (Hirundapus cochinchinensis)
灰喉鸦雀	hui	que	(bird species of China) ashy-throated parrotbill (Suthora alphonsiana)
灰喜鹊	hui	que	(bird species of China) azure-winged magpie (Cyanopica cyanus)
灰头啄木鸟	hui	niao	(bird species of China) grey-headed woodpecker (Picus canus)
灰头土脸	hui	lian	head and face filthy with grime (idiom); covered in dirt; dejected and depressed
灰头斑翅鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) streaked barwing (Actinodura souliei)
灰头柳莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) grey-hooded warbler (Phylloscopus xanthoschistos)
灰头椋鸟	hui	niao	(bird species of China) chestnut-tailed starling (Sturnia malabarica)
灰头灰雀	hui	que	(bird species of China) grey-headed bullfinch (Pyrrhula erythaca)
灰头绿鸠	hui	jiu	(bird species of China) ashy-headed green pigeon (Treron phayrei)
灰头薮鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) red-faced liocichla (Liocichla phoenicea)
灰头雀鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) grey-hooded fulvetta (Fulvetta cinereiceps)
灰头鸦雀	hui	que	(bird species of China) grey-headed parrotbill (Paradoxornis gularis)
灰头鸫	hui	dong	(bird species of China) chestnut thrush (Turdus rubrocanus)
灰头鹀	hui	wu	(bird species of China) black-faced bunting (Emberiza spodocephala)
灰头鹦鹉	hui	wu	(bird species of China) grey-headed parakeet (Psittacula finschii)
灰头麦鸡	hui	ji	(bird species of China) grey-headed lapwing (Vanellus cinereus)
灰奇鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) grey sibia (Heterophasia gracilis)
灰姑娘	hui	niang	Cinderella; a sudden rags-to-riches celebrity
灰孔雀雉	hui	zhi	(bird species of China) grey peacock-pheasant (Polyplectron bicalcaratum)
灰尾漂鹬	hui	yu	(bird species of China) grey-tailed tattler (Tringa brevipes)
灰山椒鸟	hui	niao	(bird species of China) ashy minivet (Pericrocotus divaricatus)
灰山鹑	hui	chun	(bird species of China) grey partridge (Perdix perdix)
灰岩柳莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) limestone leaf warbler (Phylloscopus calciatilis)
灰岩残丘	hui	qiu	mogote (steep-sided pointed hill in karst landform)
灰岩鹪鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) Annam limestone babbler (Gypsophila annamensis)
灰心丧气	hui	qi	downhearted; downcast; in despair
灰斑鸠	hui	jiu	(bird species of China) Eurasian collared dove (Streptopelia decaocto)
灰斑鸻	hui	heng	(bird species of China) grey plover (Pluvialis squatarola)
灰斑鹟	hui	weng	(bird species of China) grey-streaked flycatcher (Muscicapa griseisticta)
灰林鸮	hui	xiao	(bird species of China) Himalayan owl (Strix nivicolum)
灰林鸽	hui	ge	(bird species of China) ashy wood pigeon (Columba pulchricollis)
灰柳莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) sulphur-bellied warbler (Phylloscopus griseolus)
灰树鹊	hui	que	(bird species of China) grey treepie (Dendrocitta formosae)
灰椋鸟	hui	niao	(bird species of China) white-cheeked starling (Spodiopsar cineraceus)
灰溜溜	hui	liu	dull gray; gloomy; dejected
灰燕鵙	hui	ju	(bird species of China) ashy woodswallow (Artamus fuscus)
灰燕鸻	hui	heng	(bird species of China) small pratincole (Glareola lactea)
灰猎犬	hui	quan	greyhound
灰瓣蹼鹬	hui	yu	(bird species of China) red phalarope (Phalaropus fulicarius)
灰白喉林莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) common whitethroat (Curruca communis)
灰白色	hui	se	ash gray
灰皮诺	hui	nuo	Pinot gris (grape type); Pinot grigio
灰眶雀鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) David's fulvetta (Alcippe davidi)
灰眼短脚鹎	hui	bei	(bird species of China) grey-eyed bulbul (Iole propinqua)
灰短脚鹎	hui	bei	(bird species of China) ashy bulbul (Hemixos flavala)
灰翅噪鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) moustached laughingthrush (Ianthocincla cineracea)
灰翅鸥	hui	ou	(bird species of China) glaucous-winged gull (Larus glaucescens)
灰翅鸫	hui	dong	(bird species of China) grey-winged blackbird (Turdus boulboul)
灰胁噪鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) grey-sided laughingthrush (Pterorhinus caerulatus)
灰背伯劳	hui	lao	(bird species of China) grey-backed shrike (Lanius tephronotus)
灰背椋鸟	hui	niao	(bird species of China) white-shouldered starling (Sturnia sinensis)
灰背燕尾	hui	wei	(bird species of China) slaty-backed forktail (Enicurus schistaceus)
灰背隼	hui	sun	(bird species of China) merlin (Falco columbarius)
灰背鸥	hui	ou	(bird species of China) slaty-backed gull (Larus schistisagus)
灰背鸫	hui	dong	(bird species of China) grey-backed thrush (Turdus hortulorum)
灰胸竹鸡	hui	ji	(bird species of China) Chinese bamboo partridge (Bambusicola thoracicus)
灰胸薮鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) Emei Shan liocichla (Liocichla omeiensis)
灰胸鹪莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) grey-breasted prinia (Prinia hodgsonii)
灰脚柳莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) pale-legged leaf warbler (Phylloscopus tenellipes)
灰脸鹟莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) grey-cheeked warbler (Phylloscopus poliogenys)
灰腹噪鹛	hui	mei	(bird species of China) brown-cheeked laughingthrush (Trochalopteron henrici)
灰腹地莺	hui	ying	(bird species of China) grey-bellied tesia (Tesia cyaniventer)
灰腹绣眼鸟	hui	niao	(bird species of China) Indian white-eye (Zosterops palpebrosus)
灰腹角雉	hui	zhi	(bird species of China) Blyth's tragopan (Tragopan blythii)
灰色地带	hui	dai	gray area
灰蒙蒙	hui	meng	dusky; overcast (of weather)
灰蓝姬鹟	hui	weng	(bird species of China) slaty-blue flycatcher (Ficedula tricolor)
灰蓝山雀	hui	que	(bird species of China) azure tit (Cyanistes cyanus)
灰蓝鹊	hui	que	(bird species of China) white-winged magpie (Urocissa whiteheadi)
灰赤杨	hui	yang	gray alder (Alnus incana); speckled alder
灰颈鹀	hui	wu	(bird species of China) grey-necked bunting (Emberiza buchanani)
灰飞烟灭	hui	mie	lit. scattered ashes and dispersed smoke (idiom); fig. to be annihilated; to vanish in a puff of smoke
灰鹡鸰	hui	ling	(bird species of China) grey wagtail (Motacilla cinerea)
灵丘县	ling	xian	Lingqiu, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
灵丹妙药	ling	yao	effective cure, miracle medicine (idiom); fig. wonder-cure for all problems; panacea; elixir
灵台县	ling	xian	Lingtai, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
灵宝市	ling	shi	Lingbao, county-level city in Sanmenxia 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
灵寿县	ling	xian	Lingshou, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
灵山县	ling	xian	Lingshan, a county in Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
灵川县	ling	xian	Lingchuan, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
灵恩派	ling	pai	Charismatic Movement
灵感触发图	ling	tu	mind map
灵敏度	ling	du	(level of) sensitivity
灵机一动	ling	dong	a bright idea suddenly occurs (idiom); to hit upon an inspiration; to be struck by a brainwave
灵枢经	ling	jing	Lingshu Jing (Divine Pivot, or Spiritual Pivot), ancient Chinese medical text (c. 1st century BC)
灵武市	ling	shi	Lingwu, a county-level city in Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
灵气疗法	ling	fa	Reiki (palm healing)
灵活性	ling	xing	flexibility
灵犀一点通	ling	tong	mental rapport; likeness of mind; spiritual link
灵犀相通	ling	tong	kindred spirits
灵猫类	ling	lei	a civet (arboreal cat); viverrid (mammal group including mongoose and civet)
灵璧县	ling	xian	Lingbi, a county in Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
灵石县	ling	xian	Lingshi, a county in Jinzhong City 晉中市|晋中市[Jin4 zhong1 Shi4], Shanxi
灵谷寺	ling	si	Linggu temple (Nanjing)
灵长目	ling	mu	primate order (including monkeys, hominids etc)
灵长类	ling	lei	primate (monkey, hominid etc)
灵雀寺	ling	si	Nyitso Monastery in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
灵骨塔	ling	ta	columbarium
灵魂人物	ling	wu	key figure; the linchpin of sth
灵魂伴侣	ling	lv	soulmate
灵魂出窍	ling	qiao	out-of-body experience
灵魂深处	ling	chu	in the depth of one's soul
灶王爷	zao	ye	Zaoshen, the god of the kitchen; also written 灶神
灶神星	zao	xing	Vesta, an asteroid, second most massive object in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, discovered in 1807 by H.W. Olbers
灾变论	zai	lun	catastrophism; the theory that geological change is caused by catastrophic events such as the Biblical flood
灾变说	zai	shuo	catastrophism (theory that geological changes are brought about by catastrophes such as the biblical flood)
灾害链	zai	lian	series of calamities; disaster following on disaster
灾难性	zai	xing	catastrophic
灾难片	zai	pian	disaster movie
灿烂多彩	can	cai	multicolored splendor (of fireworks, bright lights etc)
灿若繁星	can	xing	bright as a multitude of stars (idiom); extremely able talent
炉火纯青	lu	qing	(lit.) the stove fire has turned bright green (allusion to Daoist alchemy) (idiom); (fig.) (of an art, a technique etc) brought to the point of perfection
炉霍县	lu	xian	Luhuo, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
炊事员	chui	yuan	cook; kitchen worker
炎亚纶	yan	lun	Aaron Yan (1986-), Taiwanese singer
炎帝陵	yan	ling	Fiery Emperor's tomb in Yanling county, Zhuzhou 株洲, Hunan
炎性反应	yan	ying	inflammation response
炎陵县	yan	xian	Yanling, a county in Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
炎黄子孙	yan	sun	descendants of the Fiery Emperor and the Yellow Emperor (i.e. Han Chinese people)
炒冷饭	chao	fan	to stir-fry leftover rice; fig. to rehash the same story; to serve up the same old product
炒地皮	chao	pi	to speculate in building land
炒气氛	chao	fen	to liven up the atmosphere
炒热气氛	chao	fen	to liven up the atmosphere
炒粿条	chao	tiao	char kway teow (stir-fried flat rice noodles, a Southeast Asian dish)
炒股票	chao	piao	to speculate in stocks
炒鱿鱼	chao	yu	(coll.) to fire sb; to sack sb
炒鸡蛋	chao	dan	scrambled eggs
炙手可热	zhi	re	lit. burn your hand, feel the heat (idiom); fig. arrogance of the powerful; a mighty figure no-one dares approach
炭疽杆菌	tan	jun	anthrax bacterium (Bacillus anthracis)
炭疽热	tan	re	anthrax
炭疽病	tan	bing	(medicine) anthrax; (horticulture) anthracnose; canker
炮儿局	pao	ju	police station (Beijing slang)
炮弹坑	pao	keng	shell crater; shell hole
炮火连天	pao	tian	cannon firing for days on end (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
炮艇机	pao	ji	gunship (aircraft)
炮铜色	pao	se	gunmetal gray
炯炯有神	jiong	shen	(idiom) (of eyes) bright and full of spirit; shining with vitality and presence
炸丸子	zha	zi	croquettes; deep fried food balls
炸土豆条	zha	tiao	french fries; (hot) potato chips
炸土豆条儿	zha	r	erhua variant of 炸土豆條|炸土豆条[zha2 tu3 dou4 tiao2]
炸土豆片	zha	pian	potato chips; crisps; fried potato
炸子鸡	zha	ji	crispy fried chicken
炸弹之母	zha	mu	Massive Ordinance Air Blast (MOAB), or Mother of All Bombs, a powerful American bomb
炸弹之父	zha	fu	Aviation Thermobaric Bomb of Increased Power (ATBIP), or Father of All Bombs, a powerful Russian bomb
炸油饼	zha	bing	deep-fried cake
炸药奖	zha	jiang	(slang) Nobel Prize
炸薯条	zha	tiao	french fries
炸薯片	zha	pian	potato chip
炸薯球	zha	qiu	tater tot
炸酱面	zha	mian	zhajiang mian, thick wheat noodles served with ground pork simmered in salty fermented soybean paste (or other sauce)
点儿背	dian	bei	(dialect) to be out of luck
点军区	dian	qu	Dianjun, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
点击付费广告	dian	gao	pay-per-click advertising
点击数	dian	shu	number of clicks; number of hits (on a website)
点击率	dian	lv	click-through rate (CTR) (Internet)
点到即止	dian	zhi	to touch on sth and leave it there; to take care not to overdo sth
点名册	dian	ce	register of names; attendance roll book
点名羞辱	dian	ru	to attack publicly; to stage a denunciation campaign
点头之交	dian	jiao	nodding acquaintance
点头咂嘴	dian	zui	to approve by nodding one's head and smacking one's lips (idiom)
点头哈腰	dian	yao	to nod one's head and bow (idiom); bowing and scraping; unctuous fawning
点头招呼	dian	hu	beckon
点子扎手	dian	shou	(coll.) one's adversary is very tough
点子背	dian	bei	(coll.) to have a stroke of bad luck
点字机	dian	ji	braille typewriter
点对点	dian	dian	p2p (peer-to-peer)
点对点加密	dian	mi	(Tw) end-to-end encryption
点斑林鸽	dian	ge	(bird species of China) speckled wood pigeon (Columba hodgsonii)
点断式	dian	shi	designed to be torn off along a line of perforations
点水不漏	dian	lou	not one drop of water leaks (idiom); fig. thoughtful and completely rigorous; watertight
点滴试验	dian	yan	spot check
点火开关	dian	guan	ignition switch
点点滴滴	dian	di	bit by bit; dribs and drabs; the little details
点烟器	dian	qi	cigarette lighter (in a car); 12-volt cigarette lighter receptacle
点睛之笔	dian	bi	the brush stroke that dots in the eyes (idiom); fig. to add the vital finishing touch; the crucial point that brings the subject to life; a few words to clinch the point
点石成金	dian	jin	to touch base matter and turn it to gold (idiom); fig. to turn crude writing into a literary gem
点胸鸦雀	dian	que	(bird species of China) spot-breasted parrotbill (Paradoxornis guttaticollis)
点视厅	dian	ting	hall where convicts are counted and verified
点金成铁	dian	tie	to transform gold into base metal (idiom); fig. to edit sb else's beautiful prose and ruin it
点金术	dian	shu	Midas touch; golden touch
点金石	dian	shi	philosopher's stone
点铁成金	dian	jin	to touch base matter and turn it to gold (idiom); fig. to turn crude writing into a literary gem
点阅率	dian	lv	click-through rate (for websites or online advertisements)
点阵字体	dian	ti	bitmap font (computer)
点阵式打印机	dian	ji	(computing) dot matrix printer
点阵打印机	dian	ji	(computing) dot matrix printer
点集合	dian	he	(math.) point set
点鬼火	dian	huo	to stir up trouble in secret; to instigate
炼丹术	lian	shu	maker of immortality pill; concocting magic pills
炼之未定	lian	ding	to spend a long time thinking about sth while unable to reach a decision
炼油厂	lian	chang	oil refinery
炼焦炉	lian	lu	coking furnace
炼金术	lian	shu	alchemy
炼金术士	lian	shi	alchemist
炼钢厂	lian	chang	steel mill
炼铁厂	lian	chang	iron foundry
烂大街	lan	jie	(coll.) (of a fashion item, song etc) to be everywhere now; to be nothing special anymore; to have lost its novelty
烂好人	lan	ren	sb who tries to be on good terms with everyone
烂尾楼	lan	lou	uncompleted building; building whose construction has run into difficulties and stopped
烂摊子	lan	zi	terrible mess; shambles
烂桃花	lan	hua	unhappy love affair
烂橘子	lan	zi	(slang) EA's Origin platform
烂污货	lan	huo	loose woman; slut
烂泥扶不上墙	lan	qiang	useless (idiom); worthless; inept
烂泥糊不上墙	lan	qiang	see 爛泥扶不上牆|烂泥扶不上墙[lan4 ni2 fu2 bu4 shang4 qiang2]
烂漫天真	lan	zhen	see 天真爛漫|天真烂漫[tian1 zhen1 lan4 man4]
烂舌头	lan	tou	to gossip; to blab; a blab-mouth
烂醉如泥	lan	ni	(idiom) to be dead drunk; to be plastered
烃化作用	ting	yong	alkylation
烈士陵	lie	ling	memorial mound; heroes' memorial
烈山区	lie	qu	Lieshan, a district of Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
烈火干柴	lie	chai	see 乾柴烈火|干柴烈火[gan1 chai2 lie4 huo3]
烘云托月	hong	yue	lit. to shade in the clouds to offset the moon (idiom); fig. a foil; a contrasting character to a main hero
烘干机	hong	ji	clothes dryer
烘手器	hong	qi	hand dryer
烘手机	hong	ji	hand dryer
烘焙师	hong	shi	baker
烘焙店	hong	dian	bakery
烘焙鸡	hong	ji	homepage (loanword) (humorous)
烘碗机	hong	ji	dish dryer
烘笼儿	hong	r	bamboo drying frame
烛光晚餐	zhu	can	candlelit dinner
烜赫一时	xuan	shi	to enjoy a short-lived fame or position of power
烟卷儿	yan	r	cigarette; CL:棵[ke1]
烟台市	yan	shi	Yantai, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
烟屁股	yan	gu	cigarette butt
烟幕弹	yan	dan	smoke bomb; smoke grenade
烟柳莺	yan	ying	(bird species of China) smoky warbler (Phylloscopus fuligiventer)
烟消云散	yan	san	(idiom) to vanish like smoke in thin air; to disappear
烟火气	yan	qi	cooking smells; (fig.) lively atmosphere
烟灰缸	yan	gang	ashtray
烟熏妆	yan	zhuang	smoky-effect makeup around the eyes
烟熏火燎	yan	liao	smoke and baking fire (idiom); surrounded by flames and smoke
烟熏眼	yan	yan	smoky eyes look (cosmetics)
烟碱素	yan	su	(Tw) niacin
烟碱酸	yan	suan	variant of 菸鹼酸|烟碱酸[yan1 jian3 suan1]
烟碱醯胺	yan	an	(Tw) nicotinamide; niacinamide
烟管面	yan	mian	elbow pasta
烟腹毛脚燕	yan	yan	(bird species of China) Asian house martin (Delichon dasypus)
烟花债	yan	zhai	involved in a love affair
烟花厂	yan	chang	firework factory
烟花场	yan	chang	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
烟花女	yan	nv	prostitute (esp. in Yuan theater)
烟花寨	yan	zhai	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
烟花巷	yan	xiang	red-light district
烟花市	yan	shi	(old) red-light district; brothel
烟花柳巷	yan	xiang	red-light district
烟花爆竹	yan	zhu	fireworks (i.e. pyrotechnic devices, not the display they produce)
烟花簿	yan	bu	catalog of prostitutes (esp. in Yuan theater)
烟花粉黛	yan	dai	woman; prostitute; lovemaking
烟花行院	yan	yuan	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
烟花阵	yan	zhen	brothel (esp. in Yuan theater)
烟花风月	yan	yue	refers to lovemaking (idiom)
烟酒不沾	yan	zhan	abstaining from liquor and tobacco
烟酰胺	yan	an	nicotinamide; niacinamide
烟醯胺	yan	an	(Tw) nicotinamide; niacinamide
烟雾剂	yan	ji	aerosol
烟雾弹	yan	dan	smoke bomb; smoke grenade
烟雾症	yan	zheng	moyamoya disease (rare brain disease first diagnosed in Japan)
烟黑叉尾海燕	yan	yan	(bird species of China) Wilson's storm petrel (Oceanites oceanicus)
烤布蕾	kao	lei	(loanword) crème brûlée
烤肉酱	kao	jiang	barbecue sauce
烤面包	kao	bao	to toast bread; toasted bread; toast; to bake bread
烤面包机	kao	ji	toaster
烦心事	fan	shi	troubles; worries; sth on one's mind
烧写器	shao	qi	programmer (electronics)
烧利市	shao	shi	(old) to burn paper money as an offering
烧夷弹	shao	dan	incendiary bomb
烧水壶	shao	hu	kettle
烧火棍	shao	gun	stick or rod used to tend a fire
烧灼伤	shao	shang	burn (injury); scorching
烧灼感	shao	gan	burning pain
烧灼疼	shao	teng	burning pain
烧烤酱	shao	jiang	barbecue sauce
烧茄子	shao	zi	stewed eggplant
烧香拜佛	shao	fo	to burn incense and worship Buddha
烧高香	shao	xiang	to burn incense; to thank profusely
烫头发	tang	fa	perm; to perm hair
烫手山芋	tang	yu	hot potato; problem; trouble
烫衣板	tang	ban	ironing board
热中子	re	zi	thermal neutron
热乎乎	re	hu	warm; (of food) piping hot; (fig.) roused to warm feelings
热传导	re	dao	heat transfer; thermal conduction
热伤风	re	feng	summer cold
热兵器	re	qi	weapon using gunpowder or explosives (opposite: 冷兵器[leng3 bing1 qi4])
热力学	re	xue	thermodynamics
热力学温度	re	du	thermodynamic temperature (temperature above absolute zero)
热力学温标	re	biao	thermodynamic temperature scale (in degrees Kelvin, measured above absolute zero)
热动平衡	re	heng	thermodynamic equilibrium
热卖品	re	pin	hot-selling property
热呼呼	re	hu	variant of 熱乎乎|热乎乎[re4 hu1 hu1]
热处理	re	li	hot treatment (e.g. of metal)
热对流	re	liu	heat convection
热导率	re	lv	thermal conductivity; heat conductivity
热射病	re	bing	heatstroke
热尔韦	re	wei	Gervais (name); Paul Gervais (1816-1879), French geologist
热岛效应	re	ying	urban heat island effect
热带地区	re	qu	the tropics
热带雨林	re	lin	tropical rain forest
热带风暴	re	bao	tropical storm
热带鱼	re	yu	tropical fish
热干面	re	mian	noodles served hot, with toppings including sesame paste and soy sauce – popular in Wuhan as a breakfast dish or late-night snack
热得快	re	kuai	immersion heater; electric heater for liquid
热心肠	re	chang	warmhearted; willing to help others
热情果	re	guo	sweet granadilla (Passiflora ligularis)
热情款待	re	dai	to provide warm hospitality
热情洋溢	re	yi	brimming with enthusiasm (idiom); full of warmth
热成像	re	xiang	thermal imaging
热成层	re	ceng	thermosphere (nonstandard synonym of 熱層|热层[re4 ceng2])
热插拔	re	ba	hot swapping
热播剧	re	ju	popular show (on TV or other media)
热敏纸	re	zhi	thermal paper
热敷布	re	bu	hot compress
热核反应堆	re	dui	thermal reactor
热核武器	re	qi	fusion weapon; thermonuclear weapon
热核聚变反应	re	ying	thermonuclear fusion reaction
热比亚	re	ya	(name) Rabiye or Rebiya; Rebiya Kadeer (1946–), Uyghur businesswoman and activist, imprisoned 1999–2005, then president of the World Uyghur Congress
热比娅	re	ya	(name) Rabiye or Rebiya; Rebiya Kadeer (1946–), Uyghur businesswoman and activist, imprisoned 1999–2005, then president of the World Uyghur Congress
热气球	re	qiu	hot air balloon
热气腾腾	re	teng	piping hot
热水器	re	qi	water heater
热水澡	re	zao	hot bath or shower
热水瓶	re	ping	thermos bottle; vacuum bottle; hot water dispenser (appliance)
热水袋	re	dai	hot-water bottle
热泪盈眶	re	kuang	eyes brimming with tears of excitement (idiom); extremely moved
热火朝天	re	tian	in full swing (idiom); (in a) frenzy; buzzing with activity
热炒热卖	re	mai	lit. to sell hot food freshly cooked; fig. to teach what one has just learned; enthusiasm of the new convert
热熔胶	re	jiao	hot-melt adhesive; hot glue
热电偶	re	ou	thermocouple
热电厂	re	chang	thermoelectric power plant
热痉挛	re	luan	heat cramps
热红酒	re	jiu	mulled wine
热缩管	re	guan	heat shrink tubing (aka heatshrink) (shrinkable plastic tube used to insulate wires)
热胀冷缩	re	suo	thermal expansion and contraction
热脉冲	re	chong	thermal pulse
热脸贴冷屁股	re	gu	to show warm feelings but meet with cold rebuke (idiom); to be snubbed despite showing good intentions
热腾腾	re	teng	steaming hot; (fig.) bustling; hectic
热蓬蓬	re	peng	steaming (hot)
热血沸腾	re	teng	(idiom) to be fired up; to have one's blood racing; to be burning (with excitement, passion, anger etc)
热衰竭	re	jie	heat exhaustion
热身赛	re	sai	warm-up match; a friendly
热辐射	re	she	thermal radiation
热辣辣	re	la	burning hot; scorching; (of food) spicy hot; (of news, topics etc) sensational; attention-grabbing
热那亚	re	ya	Genoa
热释光	re	guang	thermoluminescence
热量单位	re	wei	thermal unit; unit of heat
热锅上的蚂蚁	re	yi	(like) a cat on a hot tin roof; anxious; agitated
热门货	re	huo	goods in great demand
热风枪	re	qiang	heat gun
热香饼	re	bing	pancake
烷基苯	wan	ben	alkyl benzene; dodecylbenzene C18H30
烷基苯磺酸钠	wan	na	sodium dodecylbenzene sulfonate (used as a bubbling agent in detergents)
烷氧基	wan	ji	alkoxy (chemistry)
烹调术	peng	shu	cookery
烹饪法	peng	fa	cuisine; culinary art; cookery
烽火四起	feng	qi	the fire of war in all four directions (idiom); the confusion of war
烽烟四起	feng	qi	lit. fire beacons in all four directions (idiom); the confusion of war
烽烟遍地	feng	di	fire beacons on all sides (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
焉耆县	yan	xian	see 焉耆回族自治縣|焉耆回族自治县[Yan1 qi2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
焉耆回族自治县	yan	xian	Yanqi Hui Autonomous County, in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
焉耆盆地	yan	di	Yanqi basin in northeast of Tarim basin
焕然一新	huan	xin	to look completely new (idiom); brand new; changed beyond recognition
焖烧锅	men	guo	thermal cooker; insulated retained-heat cooker
焗油机	ju	ji	hair steamer
焚书坑儒	fen	ru	to burn the Confucian classics and bury alive the Confucian scholars (acts supposedly committed by the first emperor 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2])
焚尸炉	fen	lu	crematorium; crematory oven
焚琴煮鹤	fen	he	lit. to burn zithers and cook cranes; fig. to waste valuable resources; to destroy wantonly beautiful things
焚膏继晷	fen	gui	to burn the midnight oil (idiom); to work continuously night and day
焚香敬神	fen	shen	to burn incense in prayer to a God
焦作市	jiao	shi	Jiaozuo, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
焦头烂额	jiao	e	lit. badly burned about the head (from trying to put out a fire) (idiom); fig. hard-pressed; under pressure (from a heavy workload, creditors etc)
焦虑不安	jiao	an	worried too much
焦虑症	jiao	zheng	neurosis; anxiety
然并卵	ran	luan	(Internet slang) ultimately useless
煅石膏	duan	gao	plaster of Paris; calcined gypsum
煎炸油	jian	you	frying oil
煎炸食品	jian	pin	fried food
煎牛扒	jian	ba	beef steak
煎猪扒	jian	ba	pork steak
煎蛋卷	jian	juan	omelet
煞性子	sha	zi	to vent anger
煞有介事	sha	shi	to make a show of being very much in earnest (idiom); to act as if one is taking things very seriously
煞有其事	sha	shi	see 煞有介事[sha4 you3 jie4 shi4]
煞气腾腾	sha	teng	variant of 殺氣騰騰|杀气腾腾[sha1 qi4 teng2 teng2]
煞费苦心	sha	xin	to take a lot of trouble (idiom); painstaking; at the cost of a lot of effort
煞风景	sha	jing	to be an eyesore; (fig.) to spoil the fun; to be a wet blanket
煤储量	mei	liang	coal reserves
煤制气	mei	qi	coal gasification
煤制油	mei	you	coal liquefaction
煤层气	mei	qi	coalbed methane
煤山雀	mei	que	(bird species of China) coal tit (Periparus ater)
煤焦油	mei	you	coal tar
煤矸石	mei	shi	(mining) coal gangue
煦仁孑义	xu	yi	petty kindness
照买不误	zhao	wu	to keep on buying (a product) regardless (of price increases, adverse publicity etc)
照像机	zhao	ji	variant of 照相機|照相机[zhao4 xiang4 ji1]; camera
照单全收	zhao	shou	to accept without question; to take sth at face value
照妖镜	zhao	jing	magic mirror for revealing goblins; fig. way of seeing through a conspiracy
照明弹	zhao	dan	flare; star shell
照本宣科	zhao	ke	a wooden word-by-word reading
照片子	zhao	zi	to take an X-ray
照片底版	zhao	ban	a photographic plate
照猫画虎	zhao	hu	lit. drawing a tiger using a cat as a model (idiom); fig. to follow a model and get things more or less right but without capturing the spirit of the subject; uninspired imitation
照相排版	zhao	ban	phototypesetting; photocomposition
照相机	zhao	ji	camera; CL:台[tai2],部[bu4],架[jia4]
照相馆	zhao	guan	photo studio
照葫芦画瓢	zhao	piao	lit. to draw a dipper with a gourd as a model (idiom); fig. to copy slavishly
照进度	zhao	du	on schedule
照镜子	zhao	zi	to look in the mirror
煮熟的鸭子飞了	zhu	le	the cooked duck flew away (proverb); (fig.) to let a sure thing slip through one's fingers
煮蛋计时器	zhu	qi	egg timer
煮豆燃萁	zhu	qi	burning beanstalks to cook the beans (idiom); to cause internecine strife
煲电话粥	bao	zhou	to talk endlessly on the phone
煽动性	shan	xing	provocative
煽动颠覆国家政权	shan	quan	incitement to subvert state power (criminal charge used to gag free speech)
煽动颠覆国家罪	shan	zui	crime of conspiring to overthrow the state
煽阴风	shan	feng	to raise an ill wind
煽风点火	shan	huo	(idiom) to fan the flames; to incite people; to stir up trouble
熊亲戚	xiong	qi	(coll.) busybody relative
熊孩子	xiong	zi	(dialect) little devil; brat
熊成基	xiong	ji	Xiong Chengji (1887-1910), anti-Qing revolutionary and martyr
熊猫眼	xiong	yan	to have dark circles under one's eyes; to have eyes like a panda
熊猫血	xiong	xue	(coll.) Rh-negative blood type
熊皮帽	xiong	mao	bearskin hat
熊瞎子	xiong	zi	bear; bruin
熊耳山	xiong	shan	Mt Xiong'er national geological park in 棗莊|枣庄[Zao3 zhuang1], south Shandong
熊胆草	xiong	cao	Conyza blinii
熊腰虎背	xiong	bei	waist of a bear and back of a tiger; tough and stocky build
熏蒸剂	xun	ji	fumigant
熏衣草	xun	cao	variant of 薰衣草[xun1 yi1 cao3]
熏陶成性	xun	xing	(idiom) nurture makes second nature; good habits come by long assimilation
熔化点	rong	dian	melting point
熔岩流	rong	liu	lava flow
熔岩湖	rong	hu	lava lake
熔岩穹丘	rong	qiu	magma dome
熔断丝	rong	si	fuse wire
熔断机制	rong	zhi	(finance) trading curb; circuit breaker
熔矿炉	rong	lu	furnace
熙来攘往	xi	wang	a place buzzing with activity (idiom)
熙熙壤壤	xi	rang	variant of 熙熙攘攘[xi1 xi1 rang3 rang3]
熙熙攘攘	xi	rang	(idiom) bustling with activity
熟人熟事	shu	shi	(idiom) to be familiar with; to have regular dealings with
熟啤酒	shu	jiu	pasteurized beer
熟石灰	shu	hui	slaked lime; hydrated lime
熟石膏	shu	gao	plaster of Paris; calcined gypsum
熟练工	shu	gong	skilled worker; journeyman
熟练工人	shu	ren	skilled worker; journeyman
熟能生巧	shu	qiao	with familiarity you learn the trick (idiom); practice makes perfect
熟视无睹	shu	du	(idiom) to turn a blind eye to (sth one sees regularly)
熟词僻义	shu	yi	uncommon meaning of a common word
熟道儿	shu	r	familiar road; well-trodden path
熟门熟路	shu	lu	familiar
熟食店	shu	dian	deli; delicatessen
熬出头	ao	tou	to break clear of all the troubles and hardships; to achieve success; to make it
熬头儿	ao	r	(coll.) the reward of one's efforts; the light at the end of the tunnel
熬更守夜	ao	ye	to stay up through the night (idiom)
熹平石经	xi	jing	Xiping steles, calligraphic work on carved steles of the Eastern Han Dynasty (25-220 AD)
燃料循环	ran	huan	fuel cycle
燃料油	ran	you	fuel oil
燃料电池	ran	chi	fuel cell
燃料芯块	ran	kuai	fuel pellets
燃气电厂	ran	chang	gas fired power station
燃气轮机	ran	ji	gas turbine
燃油舱	ran	cang	fuel tank (of a ship)
燃油车	ran	che	fuel-powered car; internal-combustion vehicle
燃灯佛	ran	fo	Dipamkara Buddha, the former Buddha before Shakyamuni Buddha and the bringer of lights
燃烧剂	ran	ji	incendiary agent
燃烧匙	ran	chi	deflagrating spoon; combustion spoon
燃烧弹	ran	dan	fire bomb; incendiary device
燃烧瓶	ran	ping	Molotov cocktail
燃煤锅炉	ran	lu	coal burning boiler
燃眉之急	ran	ji	lit. the fire burns one's eyebrows (idiom); fig. desperate situation; extreme emergency
燃素说	ran	shuo	phlogiston theory
燕京啤酒	yan	jiu	Yanjing beer (Beijing beer brand)
燕京大学	yan	xue	Yanjing or Yenching University, Christian university in Beijing founded in 1919
燕太子丹	yan	dan	Prince Dan of Yan (-226 BC), commissioned the attempted assassination of King Ying Zheng of Qin 秦嬴政[Qin2 Ying2 Zheng4] (later the First Emperor 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]) by Jing Ke 荊軻|荆轲[Jing1 Ke1] in 227 BC
燕子衔泥垒大窝	yan	wo	the swallow's nest is built one beakful of mud at a time (idiom); many a little makes a mickle
燕尾服	yan	fu	swallow-tailed coat; tails
燕尾蝶	yan	die	swallowtail butterfly (family Papilionidae)
燕菜精	yan	jing	agar-agar powder
燕赵都市报	yan	bao	Yanzhao Metropolis Daily
燕雀处堂	yan	tang	lit. a caged bird in a pavilion (idiom); fig. to lose vigilance by comfortable living; unaware of the disasters ahead; a fool's paradise
燕雀安知鸿鹄之志	yan	zhi	lit. can the sparrow and swallow know the will of the great swan? (idiom); fig. how can we small fry predict the ambitions of the great?
燕雀焉知鸿鹄之志	yan	zhi	lit. can the sparrow and swallow know the will of the great swan? (idiom); fig. how can we small fry predict the ambitions of the great?
燕雀相贺	yan	he	lit. sparrow and swallow's congratulation (idiom); fig. to congratulate sb on completion of a building project; congratulations on your new house!
燕麦片	yan	pian	rolled oats
燕麦粥	yan	zhou	oatmeal; porridge
燧人氏	sui	shi	Suirenshi, legendary inventor of fire
燧发枪	sui	qiang	flintlock
爆冷门	bao	men	an upset (esp. in sports); unexpected turn of events; to pull off a coup
爆冷门儿	bao	r	erhua variant of 爆冷門|爆冷门[bao4 leng3 men2]
爆发力	bao	li	explosive power (in athletics, music, dance etc); dynamic intensity
爆发性	bao	xing	explosive power; explosive
爆炸力	bao	li	explosive force; strength of an explosion
爆炸头	bao	tou	afro (hairstyle)
爆炸性	bao	xing	explosive; fig. shocking
爆炸物	bao	wu	explosive (material)
爆玉米花	bao	hua	to make popcorn; popcorn
爆破手	bao	shou	dynamiter
爆米花	bao	hua	puffed rice; popcorn
爆肚儿	bao	r	erhua variant of 爆肚[bao4 du3]
爆菊花	bao	hua	(slang) to stick sth up the anus; to have anal intercourse
爆裂物	bao	wu	explosives
爆金币	bao	bi	(gaming) (of a monster etc) to drop gold coins when defeated; (fig.) (slang) to give or spend money
爪哇八哥	zhao	ge	(bird species of China) Javan myna (Acridotheres javanicus)
爪哇国	zhao	guo	ancient state located in present-day Java 爪哇[Zhao3 wa1]; (fig.) somewhere remote, inaccessible or obscure
爪哇岛	zhao	dao	Java (island of Indonesia)
爪哇池鹭	zhao	lu	(bird species of China) Javan pond heron (Ardeola speciosa)
爪哇禾雀	zhao	que	(bird species of China) Java sparrow (Lonchura oryzivora)
爪字头	zhao	tou	Chinese character component 爫, used in 受, 妥, 乳 etc
爪尖儿	zhua	r	pig's trotters
爬山涉水	pa	shui	to climb mountains and wade rivers (idiom); fig. to make a long and difficult journey
爬山虎	pa	hu	Boston ivy or Japanese creeper (Parthenocissus tricuspidata)
爬格子	pa	zi	(oral) to write (esp. for a living); to spell out laboriously on squared paper
爬虫动物	pa	wu	reptile
爬虫类	pa	lei	reptiles; also written 爬行類|爬行类
爬行动物	pa	wu	reptile
爬行类	pa	lei	reptiles; also written 爬行動物|爬行动物
爱丁堡	ai	bao	Edinburgh, capital of Scotland
爱不忍释	ai	shi	to love sth too much to part with it (idiom)
爱不释手	ai	shou	(idiom) to like sth so much that one is reluctant to put it down; to find sth utterly irresistible
爱丽丝	ai	si	(name) Alice
爱丽丝漫游奇境记	ai	ji	Alice in Wonderland
爱丽舍宫	ai	gong	Elysée Palace, the residence of the president of the French Republic
爱之如命	ai	ming	to love sb (or sth) as one loves life itself
爱乐乐团	ai	tuan	philharmonic orchestra
爱人如己	ai	ji	love others as self
爱优腾	ai	teng	abbr. for iQiyi 愛奇藝|爱奇艺[Ai4 Qi2 yi4] + Youku 優酷|优酷[You1 ku4] + Tencent 騰訊|腾讯[Teng2 xun4]
爱克斯光	ai	guang	X-ray (loanword); Röntgen or Roentgen ray
爱克斯射线	ai	xian	X-ray radiation
爱别离苦	ai	ku	(Buddhism) the pain of parting with what (or whom) one loves, one of the eight distresses 八苦[ba1 ku3]
爱卫会	ai	hui	Patriotic Health Committee (abbr. for 愛國衛生運動委員會|爱国卫生运动委员会[Ai4 guo2 Wei4 sheng1 Yun4 dong4 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
爱哭鬼	ai	gui	crybaby
爱因斯坦	ai	tan	Albert Einstein (1879-1955), German-born theoretical physicist
爱国主义	ai	yi	patriotism
爱国卫生运动委员会	ai	hui	Patriotic Health Committee
爱国如家	ai	jia	to love one's country as one's own family (praise for a virtuous ruler)
爱国者	ai	zhe	MIM-104 Patriot surface-to-air missile
爱奇艺	ai	yi	iQiyi, online video platform based in Beijing, launched in 2010
爱奥华	ai	hua	Iowa, US state
爱奥尼亚海	ai	hai	Ionian Sea between Italy and Greece
爱好者	ai	zhe	lover (of art, sports etc); amateur; enthusiast; fan
爱尔兰	ai	lan	Ireland
爱尔兰人	ai	ren	Irish person
爱尔兰共和军	ai	jun	Irish Republican Army (IRA)
爱尔兰共和国	ai	guo	Republic of Ireland
爱尔兰海	ai	hai	Irish Sea between Ireland and north England
爱尔兰语	ai	yu	Irish language
爱屋及乌	ai	wu	lit. love the house and its crow (idiom); involvement with sb and everyone connected; Love me, love my dog.
爱屋及鸟	ai	niao	see 愛屋及烏|爱屋及乌[ai4 wu1 ji2 wu1]
爱岗敬业	ai	ye	devoted to one's work
爱彼迎	ai	ying	Airbnb
爱得死去活来	ai	lai	to be madly in love
爱德华	ai	hua	Edward; Édouard (name)
爱德华兹	ai	zi	(name) Edwards
爱德华岛	ai	dao	Prince Edward Island, province of Canada
爱德华王子岛	ai	dao	Prince Edward Island (province of Canada)
爱德斯沃尔	ai	er	Eidsvoll (city in Norway)
爱德玲	ai	ling	Adeline (name)
爱德蒙	ai	meng	(name) Edmund; Edmond
爱心伞	ai	san	courtesy umbrella (one made available for borrowing)
爱恨交加	ai	jia	to feel a mixture of love and hate
爱恨交织	ai	zhi	mixture of love and hate
爱情喜剧	ai	ju	romantic comedy
爱情片	ai	pian	romance film
爱惜羽毛	ai	mao	(idiom) to cherish one's reputation
爱慕虚荣	ai	rong	vain
爱憎分明	ai	ming	to make a clear difference between what one likes and what one hates; to have well-defined likes and dislikes
爱才若渴	ai	ke	(idiom) to be eager to surround oneself with talented people
爱斯基摩	ai	mo	Eskimo
爱新觉罗	ai	luo	Aisin Gioro, family name of the Manchu emperors of the Qing dynasty
爱晚亭	ai	ting	Aiwan Pavilion, on Mt Yuelu 岳麓山 in Hubei, famous beauty spot
爱普生	ai	sheng	Epson, Japanese electronics company
爱死病	ai	bing	nonstandard, stigmatizing transliteration of "AIDS", now replaced by 艾滋病[ai4 zi1 bing4]
爱民区	ai	qu	Aimin, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
爱民如子	ai	zi	(idiom) to love the common people as one's own children (praise for a virtuous ruler)
爱沙尼亚	ai	ya	Estonia
爱滋病	ai	bing	variant of 艾滋病[ai4 zi1 bing4]
爱滋病毒	ai	du	HIV; the AIDS virus
爱漂亮	ai	liang	to like looking attractive (usually of girls); aestheticism
爱玉冰	ai	bing	jelly snack made by kneading jelly fig seeds 愛玉子|爱玉子[ai4 yu4 zi3] in water and combining with flavorings (popular in Taiwan and Singapore)
爱玉冻	ai	dong	see 愛玉冰|爱玉冰[ai4 yu4 bing1]
爱玉子	ai	zi	jelly fig seed (Ficus pumila var. awkeotsang)
爱理不理	ai	li	(idiom) standoffish; indifferent
爱琴海	ai	hai	Aegean Sea
爱留根纳	ai	na	Eriugena, John Scottus (c. 810-880) Irish poet, theologian, and philosopher of Neoplatonism
爱窝窝	ai	wo	variant of 艾窩窩|艾窝窝[ai4 wo1 wo5]
爱立信	ai	xin	Ericsson (Swedish telecommunications company)
爱维养	ai	yang	Evian, mineral water company (Tw)
爱罗先珂	ai	ke	Vasili Eroshenko (1890-1952), Russian writer and poet who wrote in Esperanto and Japanese
爱美之心人皆有之	ai	zhi	everyone loves beauty (idiom)
爱耳日	ai	ri	Ear Care Day (March 3)
爱荷华	ai	hua	Iowa, US state (Tw)
爱莉丝	ai	si	(name) Alice
爱莫利维尔	ai	er	Emeryville, city on San Fransico Bay, California
爱莫能助	ai	zhu	unable to help however much one would like to (idiom); Although we sympathize, there is no way to help you.; My hands are tied.
爱词霸	ai	ba	iCIBA, online dictionary by Kingsoft
爱谁谁	ai	shei	(coll.) whatever; who cares
爱财如命	ai	ming	lit. to love money as much as one's own life (idiom); fig. avaricious; tightfisted
爱辉区	ai	qu	Aihui, a district of Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
爱达荷	ai	he	Idaho, US state
爱迪生	ai	sheng	Edison (name); Thomas Alva Edison (1847-1931), American inventor and businessman
爱面子	ai	zi	to like to look good in the eyes of others; sensitive about how one is regarded by others; proud
爱马仕	ai	shi	Hermès (brand)
爱默生	ai	sheng	Ralph Waldo Emerson (1803-1882), American poet, essayist, and philosopher
爵士乐	jue	yue	jazz (loanword)
爵士舞	jue	wu	jazz (loanword)
爵士音乐	jue	yue	jazz (loanword)
爵士鼓	jue	gu	drum kit (Tw)
父亲节	fu	jie	Father's Day
父慈子孝	fu	xiao	benevolent father, filial son (idiom); natural love between parents and children
父执辈	fu	bei	person of one's father's generation
父权制	fu	zhi	patriarchy
父母之命媒妁之言	fu	yan	(idiom) parents' orders and matchmaker's services (in establishing an arranged marriage)
父母亲	fu	qin	parents
父母双亡	fu	wang	to have lost both one's parents
父目录	fu	lu	(computing) parent directory
爷们儿	ye	r	erhua variant of 爺們|爷们[ye2 men5]
爽心悦目	shuang	mu	beautiful and heartwarming
爽心美食	shuang	shi	comfort food
爽歪了	shuang	le	(slang) awesome; amazing; too cool!; sick
爽歪歪	shuang	wai	to feel great; blissful; to be in bliss
爽然若失	shuang	shi	at a loss; confused; not know what to do next
爽爽快快	shuang	kuai	in short order; straightforward
爽肤水	shuang	shui	toner (cosmetics)
爽身粉	shuang	fen	baby powder; talcum powder
片假名	pian	ming	katakana (Japanese script)
片儿警	pian	jing	local or neighborhood policeman
片头曲	pian	qu	opening theme song
片尾曲	pian	qu	ending theme song
片麻岩	pian	yan	gneiss
版权所有	ban	you	all rights reserved (copyright statement)
版面费	ban	fei	publishing fee; page charge
牙买加	ya	jia	Jamaica
牙买加胡椒	ya	jiao	Jamaican pepper; allspice (Pimenta dioica)
牙克石	ya	shi	see 牙克石市[Ya2 ke4 shi2 Shi4]
牙克石市	ya	shi	Yakeshi, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
牙关紧闭症	ya	zheng	lockjaw; trismus
牙周炎	ya	yan	periodontitis (gum disorder)
牙周病	ya	bing	periodontitis (gum disorder)
牙本质	ya	zhi	dentin; dentine
牙牙学语	ya	yu	see 咿呀學語|咿呀学语[yi1 ya1 xue2 yu3]
牙科医生	ya	sheng	dentist
牙线棒	ya	bang	floss pick
牙结石	ya	shi	dental calculus; tartar
牙缝儿	ya	r	gap between teeth
牙菌斑	ya	ban	dental bacterial plaque
牙釉质	ya	zhi	tooth enamel
牙齿矫正器	ya	qi	orthodontic braces
牙龈炎	ya	yan	gingivitis
牛不喝水强按头	niu	tou	lit. to try to make an ox drink by forcing its head down to the water (idiom); fig. to try to impose one's will on sb
牛不喝水难按角	niu	jiao	(idiom) you can lead a horse to water but you cannot make it drink
牛仔布	niu	bu	denim
牛仔裤	niu	ku	jeans; CL:條|条[tiao2]
牛刀小试	niu	shi	see 小試牛刀|小试牛刀[xiao3 shi4 niu2 dao1]
牛头不对马嘴	niu	zui	see 驢唇不對馬嘴|驴唇不对马嘴[lu : 2 chun2 bu4 dui4 ma3 zui3]
牛头伯劳	niu	lao	(bird species of China) bull-headed shrike (Lanius bucephalus)
牛头犬	niu	quan	bulldog
牛奶巧克力	niu	li	milk chocolate
牛奶糖	niu	tang	toffee; chewy caramel candy
牛山濯濯	niu	zhuo	treeless hills (idiom)
牛年马月	niu	yue	see 猴年馬月|猴年马月[hou2 nian2 ma3 yue4]
牛性子	niu	zi	see 牛性[niu2 xing4]
牛排餐厅	niu	ting	steakhouse; chophouse
牛排馆	niu	guan	steakhouse
牛油戟	niu	ji	pound cake
牛油果	niu	guo	avocado (Persea americana); shea nut (Vitellaria paradoxa)
牛津大学	niu	xue	University of Oxford
牛津郡	niu	jun	Oxfordshire (English county)
牛海绵状脑病	niu	bing	bovine spongiform encephalopathy, BSE; mad cow disease
牛溲马勃	niu	bo	cow's piss, horse's ulcer (idiom); worthless nonsense; insignificant
牛痘病	niu	bing	cow pox
牛百叶	niu	ye	omasum; beef tripe
牛皮癣	niu	xuan	psoriasis
牛皮纸	niu	zhi	kraft paper
牛皮色	niu	se	buff (color)
牛皮菜	niu	cai	chard (Beta vulgaris)
牛磺酸	niu	suan	taurine
牛筋草	niu	cao	wire grass (Eleusine indica)
牛肉丸	niu	wan	beef meatballs
牛肉干	niu	gan	dried beef; beef jerky
牛肉面	niu	mian	beef noodle soup
牛肝菌	niu	jun	porcino (Boletus edulis)
牛背鹭	niu	lu	(bird species of China) eastern cattle egret (Bubulcus coromandus)
牛脊肉	niu	rou	sirloin (beef joint)
牛脖子	niu	zi	(coll.) bullheaded; obstinate
牛脷酥	niu	su	ox tongue pastry, oval Guangdong pastry made of fried dough, resembling an ox tongue
牛脾气	niu	qi	bullheadedness; stubborn
牛膝草	niu	cao	hyssop (Hyssopus officinalis)
牛衣对泣	niu	qi	couple living in destitute misery (idiom)
牛角包	niu	bao	croissant
牛角挂书	niu	shu	lit. to hang one's books on cow horns (idiom); fig. to be diligent in one's studies
牛角椒	niu	jiao	Cayenne pepper; red pepper; chili
牛角面包	niu	bao	croissant
牛轧糖	niu	tang	(loanword) nougat
牛轭礁	niu	jiao	Niu'e Reef, disputed territory in the South China Sea, claimed by China, Vietnam and the Philippines, aka Whitsun Reef or Julian Felipe Reef
牛郎织女	niu	nv	Cowherd and Weaving maid (characters in folk story); separated lovers; Altair and Vega (stars)
牛顿力学	niu	xue	Newtonian mechanics
牛顿米	niu	mi	newton meter, unit of torque (symbol: N⋅m)
牛骥同槽	niu	cao	cow and famous steed at the same trough (idiom); fig. the common and the great are treated alike; also written 牛驥同皂|牛骥同皂[niu2 ji4 tong2 zao4]
牛骥同皂	niu	zao	cow and famous steed at the same trough (idiom); fig. the common and the great are treated alike
牛鬼蛇神	niu	shen	evil monsters; (fig.) bad characters; (political) bad elements
牛魔王	niu	wang	Gyuumao
牛鼻子	niu	zi	key point; crux; (old) Daoist (facetious)
牝牡骊黄	pin	huang	a black stallion or possibly a yellow mare (idiom); don't judge by outward appearance
牝鸡司晨	pin	chen	female chicken crows at daybreak (idiom); a woman usurps authority; women meddle in politics; The female wears the trousers.
牟取暴利	mou	li	to reap huge profits (esp. by unscrupulous means)
牟定县	mou	xian	Mouding, a county in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
牟平区	mu	qu	Muping, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
牡丹亭	mu	ting	The Peony Pavilion (1598), play by Tang Xianzu 湯顯祖|汤显祖[Tang1 Xian3 zu3]
牡丹区	mu	qu	Mudan, a district of Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
牡丹卡	mu	ka	Peony Card (credit card issued by Industrial and Commercial Bank of China)
牡丹江	mu	jiang	see 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4]
牡丹江市	mu	shi	Mudanjiang, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
牡丹皮	mu	pi	root bark of the peony tree (used in TCM)
牡羊座	mu	zuo	Aries (constellation and sign of the zodiac); used erroneously for 白羊座
牢不可破	lao	po	(idiom) (usu. of sth abstract: an alliance, a conviction etc) unbreakable; rock-solid
牢什子	lao	zi	variant of 勞什子|劳什子[lao2 shi2 zi5]
牢狱之灾	lao	zai	imprisonment
牧夫座	mu	zuo	Boötes (constellation)
牧牛犬	mu	quan	cattle dog
牧神节	mu	jie	Lupercalia, Roman festival to Pan on 15th February
牧羊人	mu	ren	shepherd
牧羊犬	mu	quan	sheepdog
牧羊者	mu	zhe	shepherd
牧野区	mu	qu	Muye, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
牧马人	mu	ren	herdsman (of horses); wrangler
物业税	wu	shui	property tax
物业管理	wu	li	property management
物业费	wu	fei	property management fee
物主代词	wu	ci	possessive pronoun
物主限定词	wu	ci	possessive (in grammar)
物以稀为贵	wu	gui	the rarer sth is, the greater its value (idiom)
物以类聚	wu	ju	similar things come together (idiom); like draws like; Birds of a feather flock together.
物以类聚人以群分	wu	fen	Similar things group together, similar people fit together (idiom); Birds of a feather flock together.
物价指数	wu	shu	price index
物候学	wu	xue	phenology
物各有主	wu	zhu	everything has a rightful owner (idiom)
物尽其用	wu	yong	to use sth to the full; to make the best use of everything
物归原主	wu	zhu	(idiom) to return sth to its rightful owner
物是人非	wu	fei	(idiom) the place is unchanged, but the faces are different
物极必反	wu	fan	when things reach an extreme, they can only move in the opposite direction (idiom)
物欲世界	wu	jie	the world of material desires (Buddhism)
物流管理	wu	li	logistics
物物交换	wu	huan	barter
物理化学	wu	xue	physical chemistry
物理学	wu	xue	physics
物理学家	wu	jia	physicist
物理层	wu	ceng	physical layer
物理性质	wu	zhi	physical property
物理治疗	wu	liao	physiotherapy; physical therapy
物理疗法	wu	fa	physiotherapy; physical therapy
物理结构	wu	gou	physical composition
物理量	wu	liang	physical quantity
物种起源	wu	yuan	Charles Darwin's "On the Origin of Species"
物竞天择	wu	ze	natural selection
物美价廉	wu	lian	good quality and cheap; a bargain
物联网	wu	wang	Internet of things (IoT)
物质享受	wu	shou	material benefits
物质文明	wu	ming	material culture
物质文明和精神文明	wu	ming	material and spiritual culture; matter and mind; material progress, ideology and culture (philosophic slogan, adopted into Deng Xiaoping theory from 1978)
物质的量	wu	liang	(chemistry) amount of substance
物超所值	wu	zhi	(of a product, service etc) worth more than the cost; great value for the money spent
牵一发而动全身	qian	shen	lit. pulling a single hair makes the whole body move (idiom); fig. a small change in one part can affect the whole system
牵引力	qian	li	motive force; traction
牵引车	qian	che	tractor unit; tractor truck; prime mover
牵强附会	qian	hui	to make an irrelevant comparison or interpretation (idiom)
牵心挂肠	qian	chang	to worry deeply about sth; extremely concerned
牵扯不清	qian	qing	unclear; ambiguous; having an unclear relationship with
牵涉到	qian	dao	to involve; to drag in
牵牛属	qian	shu	Pharbitis, genus of herbaceous plants including Morning glory 牽牛|牵牛 (Pharbitis nil)
牵牛星	qian	xing	Altair (star); Cowherd of the folk tale Cowherd and Weaving maid 牛郎織女|牛郎织女
牵牛花	qian	hua	white-edged morning glory
牵着鼻子走	qian	zou	to lead by the nose
牵红线	qian	xian	to play matchmaker
牵线人	qian	ren	sb who pulls strings to get things done; wirepuller; go-between
牵羊担酒	qian	jiu	pulling a lamb and bringing wine on a carrying pole (idiom); fig. to offer elaborate congratulations; to kill the fatted calf
牵肠挂肚	qian	du	deeply worried (idiom); to feel anxious
特伦顿	te	dun	Trenton, capital of New Jersey
特侦组	te	zu	special investigation team (Tw)
特克斯	te	si	see 特克斯縣|特克斯县[Te4 ke4 si1 Xian4]
特克斯县	te	xian	Tekes, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
特克斯和凯科斯群岛	te	dao	Turks and Caicos Islands
特克斯河	te	he	Tekes River in southeast Kazakhstan and northwest China, a tributary of the Ili River 伊犁河[Yi1 li2 He2]
特内里费	te	fei	Tenerife
特别任务连	te	lian	Special Duties Unit, Hong Kong special police
特别客串	te	chuan	special guest performer (in a show); special guest appearance (in film credits)
特别待遇	te	yu	special treatment
特别感谢	te	xie	special thanks; particular thanks
特别护理	te	li	intensive care
特别提款权	te	quan	special drawing rights (SDR), international currency of the IMF
特别行政区	te	qu	special administrative region (SAR), of which there are two in the PRC: Hong Kong 香港 and Macau 澳門|澳门; refers to many different areas during late Qing, foreign occupation, warlord period and Nationalist government; refers to special zones in North Korea and Indonesia
特卖会	te	hui	promotional event; sale
特卫强	te	qiang	Tyvek (brand)
特发性	te	xing	idiopathic
特古西加尔巴	te	ba	Tegucigalpa, capital of Honduras
特大号	te	hao	(of clothes, containers etc) extra-large
特奥会	te	hui	Special Olympics
特富龙	te	long	(PRC) Teflon (trademark)
特异功能	te	neng	supernatural power; extrasensory perception
特异性	te	xing	specific; specificity; idiosyncrasy
特异选择	te	ze	special choice; special reserve
特征值	te	zhi	(math.) eigenvalue
特征向量	te	liang	(math.) eigenvector
特征联合	te	he	characteristic binding
特快专递	te	di	express mail
特快车	te	che	special express
特惠金	te	jin	ex gratia payment
特技演员	te	yuan	stuntman
特技跳伞	te	san	skydiving
特护区	te	qu	intensive care department (of hospital)
特拉华	te	hua	Delaware, US state
特拉华河	te	he	Delaware River, between Pennsylvania and Delaware state, USA
特拉法加广场	te	chang	Trafalgar Square (London)
特拉法尔加	te	jia	Trafalgar
特拉法尔加广场	te	chang	Trafalgar Square (London)
特拉维夫	te	fu	Tel Aviv; Tel Aviv-Jaffa
特指问句	te	ju	(linguistics) wh-question
特提斯海	te	hai	Tethys (pre-Cambrian ocean)
特效药	te	yao	effective medicine for a specific condition; highly effective medicine
特敏福	te	fu	(HK) Tamiflu
特斯拉	te	la	Nikola Tesla (1856–1943), Serbian inventor and engineer; Tesla, an American electric vehicle and clean energy company
特易购	te	gou	Tesco, British-based supermarket chain
特朗普	te	pu	Donald Trump (1946–), American businessman and politician, US president 2017–2021 and 2025–
特殊儿童	te	tong	child with special needs; gifted child
特殊关系	te	xi	special relation
特殊函数	te	shu	special functions (math.)
特殊护理	te	li	special care; intensive nursing
特殊教育	te	yu	special education; special-needs education
特氟龙	te	long	Teflon; polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)
特洛伊	te	yi	ancient city of Troy
特洛伊木马	te	ma	Trojan horse
特派员	te	yuan	special correspondent; sb dispatched on a mission; special commissioner
特瓦族	te	zu	Twa or Batwa, an ethnic group in Rwanda, Burundi, Uganda and the Democratic Republic of Congo
特种兵	te	bing	commando; special forces soldier
特种空勤团	te	tuan	Special Air Service (SAS)
特种警察	te	cha	SWAT (Special Weapons And Tactics); riot police
特种部队	te	dui	(military) special forces
特立尼达	te	da	Trinidad
特立尼达和多巴哥	te	ge	Trinidad and Tobago
特立独行	te	xing	to be unconventional; independence of action
特约记者	te	zhe	special correspondent; stringer
特罗多斯	te	si	Troodos, Cyprus
特艺彩色	te	se	Technicolor
特许权	te	quan	patent; franchise; concession
特许状	te	zhuang	charter
特许经营	te	ying	franchised operation; franchising
特赦令	te	ling	decree to grant a special pardon
特里尔	te	er	Trier (city in Germany)
特里普拉	te	la	Tripura (Indian state)
特里萨	te	sa	Teresa; Theresa (name)
特雷沃	te	wo	Trevor (name)
特雷莎	te	sha	Teresa; Theresa (name)
特鲁埃尔	te	er	Tergüel or Teruel, Spain
特鲁多	te	duo	Pierre Trudeau (1919-2000), prime minister of Canada 1980-1984 and 1968-1979; Justin Trudeau (1971-), prime minister of Canada from 2015
牺牲品	xi	pin	sacrificial victim; sb who is expendable; item sold at a loss
牺牲打	xi	da	sacrifice hit (in sport, e.g. baseball)
牺牲者	xi	zhe	sb who sacrifices himself; sacrificial victim; sb who is expendable
牻牛儿苗科	mang	ke	Geraniaceae (the geranium family)
犄角旮旯	ji	la	corner; nook
犍为县	qian	xian	Qianwei, a county in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
犍陀罗	jian	luo	Gandhara Kingdom in northwest India, c. 600 BC-11 AD, on Kabul River in Vale of Peshawar
犟劲儿	jiang	r	erhua variant of 犟勁|犟劲[jiang4 jin4]
犬儒主义	quan	yi	cynicism
犬夜叉	quan	cha	Inuyasha, fictional character
犬瘟热	quan	re	canine distemper (mammalian disease caused by Canine morbillivirus)
犬马之劳	quan	lao	lit. the service of a dog or a horse (idiom); fig. faithful service
犯上作乱	fan	luan	to rebel against the emperor (idiom)
犯不上	fan	shang	see 犯不著|犯不着[fan4 bu5 zhao2]
犯不着	fan	zhao	not worthwhile
犯嘀咕	fan	gu	to hesitate; to have second thoughts; to be concerned
犯得上	fan	shang	worthwhile (often in rhetorical questions, implying not worthwhile)
犯得着	fan	zhao	worthwhile (often in rhetorical questions, implying not worthwhile); also written 犯得上[fan4 de5 shang4]
犯罪分子	fan	zi	variant of 犯罪分子[fan4 zui4 fen4 zi3]
犯罪团伙	fan	huo	a criminal gang
犯罪学	fan	xue	criminology
犯罪现场	fan	chang	scene of the crime
犯罪者	fan	zhe	criminal; perpetrator
犯罪行为	fan	wei	criminal activity
犯罪记录	fan	lu	criminal record
犯罪集团	fan	tuan	crime syndicate
状声词	zhuang	ci	onomatopoeia
状态动词	zhuang	ci	(linguistics) stative verb
状态栏	zhuang	lan	(computing) status bar
犹之乎	you	hu	just like (sth)
犹他州	you	zhou	Utah
犹地亚	you	ya	Judea
犹大书	you	shu	Epistle of St Jude (in New Testament)
犹太人	you	ren	Jew
犹太会堂	you	tang	synagogue
犹太复国主义	you	yi	Zionism
犹太复国主义者	you	zhe	a Zionist
犹太教	you	jiao	Judaism
犹太教堂	you	tang	synagogue
犹太法典	you	dian	the Talmud
犹未为晚	you	wan	it is not too late (idiom)
犹豫不决	you	jue	hesitancy; indecision; to waver
犹达斯	you	si	Judas (name)
狂三诈四	kuang	si	to deceive and swindle across the board (idiom)
狂人日记	kuang	ji	Diary of a Madman by Lu Xun 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4]
狂奴故态	kuang	tai	to be set in one's ways (idiom)
狂妄自大	kuang	da	arrogant and conceited
狂想曲	kuang	qu	rhapsody (music)
狂战士	kuang	shi	berserker (Norse warrior or fantasy role-playing character)
狂暴者	kuang	zhe	berserker (fantasy role-playing)
狂欢节	kuang	jie	carnival
狂牛病	kuang	bing	mad cow disease; bovine spongiform encephalopathy, BSE
狂犬疫苗	kuang	miao	rabies vaccine
狂犬病	kuang	bing	rabies
狂轰滥炸	kuang	zha	to bomb indiscriminately
狂风暴雨	kuang	yu	(idiom) howling wind and torrential rain; furious storm; (fig.) (idiom) difficult circumstances; dangerous situation
狂风骤雨	kuang	yu	strong wind and heavy rain (idiom)
狂饮暴食	kuang	shi	(idiom) to eat and drink to excess
狄仁杰	di	jie	Di Renjie (607-700), Tang dynasty politician, prime minister under Wu Zetian, subsequently hero of legends; master sleuth Judge Dee, aka Chinese Sherlock Holmes, in novel Three murder cases solved by Judge Dee 狄公案[Di2 gong1 an4] translated by Dutch sinologist R.H. van Gulik 高羅珮|高罗佩[Gao1 Luo2 pei4]
狄俄倪索斯	di	si	Dionysus, the god of wine in Greek mythology
狄公案	di	an	Dee Gong An (or Judge Dee's) Cases, 18th century fantasy featuring Tang dynasty politician Di Renjie 狄仁傑|狄仁杰[Di2 Ren2 jie2] as master sleuth, translated by R.H. van Gulik as Three Murder Cases Solved by Judge Dee
狄奥多	di	duo	Theodor (name)
狄拉克	di	ke	P.A.M. Dirac (1902-1984), British physicist
狄更斯	di	si	Dickens (name); Charles Dickens (1812-1870), great English novelist
狐假虎威	hu	wei	lit. the fox exploits the tiger's might (idiom); fig. to use powerful connections to intimidate people
狐朋狗友	hu	you	a pack of rogues (idiom); a gang of scoundrels
狐步舞	hu	wu	fox-trot (ballroom dance) (loanword)
狐狸尾巴	hu	ba	lit. fox's tail (idiom); visible sign of evil intentions; to reveal one's evil nature; evidence that reveals the villain
狐狸座	hu	zuo	(astronomy) Vulpecula
狐狸精	hu	jing	fox-spirit; vixen; witch
狐群狗党	hu	dang	a skulk of foxes, a pack of dogs (idiom); a gang of rogues
狗东西	gou	xi	scumbag; scoundrel
狗仔式	gou	shi	dog paddle (swimming); doggy style (sex)
狗仔队	gou	dui	paparazzi
狗仗人势	gou	shi	a dog threatens based on master's power (idiom); to use one's position to bully others
狗吃屎	gou	shi	to fall flat on one's face (vulgar)
狗咬狗	gou	gou	dog-eat-dog; dogfight
狗嘴里吐不出象牙	gou	ya	lit. no ivory comes from the mouth of a dog (idiom); fig. one does not expect fine words from a scoundrel
狗头军师	gou	shi	(derog.) inept advisor; a good-for-nothing adviser; one who offers bad advice
狗娘养的	gou	de	son of a bitch
狗尾巴草	gou	cao	see 狗尾草[gou3 wei3 cao3]
狗尾续貂	gou	diao	lit. to use a dog's tail as a substitute for sable fur (idiom); fig. a worthless sequel to a masterpiece
狗尾草	gou	cao	green foxtail (Setaria viridis)
狗屁不通	gou	tong	(idiom) (of writing, speech etc) incoherent; nonsensical
狗屎运	gou	yun	(coll.) (other people's) dumb luck
狗崽子	gou	zi	(coll.) puppy; (derog.) son of a bitch
狗急跳墙	gou	qiang	a cornered dog will jump over the wall (idiom); to be driven to desperate action
狗扯羊皮	gou	pi	to fuss around; to buzz about uselessly; to wag one's tongue
狗拿耗子	gou	zi	lit. a dog who catches mice; to be meddlesome (idiom)
狗改不了吃屎	gou	shi	lit. a dog can't stop himself from eating shit (idiom); fig. bad habits are hard to change
狗日的	gou	de	(vulgar) damned; fucking (attributive intensifier); (vulgar) bastard
狗杂碎	gou	sui	piece of shit; scumbag
狗杂种	gou	zhong	son of a bitch; damn bastard
狗爬式	gou	shi	dog paddle (swimming style); doggy style (sex position)
狗狗币	gou	bi	Dogecoin (cryptocurrency)
狗狗秀	gou	xiu	dog show
狗男女	gou	nv	a couple engaged in an illicit love affair; a cheating couple
狗皮膏药	gou	yao	dogskin plaster, used in TCM for treating contusions, rheumatism etc; quack medicine; sham goods
狗眼看人低	gou	di	to act like a snob
狗窦大开	gou	kai	dog hole wide open (idiom); fig. gap caused by missing teeth (used mockingly)
狗胆包天	gou	tian	extremely daring (idiom); foolhardy
狗腿子	gou	zi	dog's leg; fig. one who follows a villain; henchman
狗苟蝇营	gou	ying	see 蠅營狗苟|蝇营狗苟[ying2 ying2 gou3 gou3]
狗血喷头	gou	tou	torrent of abuse (idiom)
狗血淋头	gou	tou	lit. to pour dog's blood on (idiom); fig. torrent of abuse
狗逮老鼠	gou	shu	lit. a dog who catches mice (idiom); fig. to be meddlesome
狙击手	ju	shou	sniper; marksman
狠巴巴	hen	ba	very fierce
狡兔三窟	jiao	ku	lit. a crafty rabbit has three burrows; a sly individual has more than one plan to fall back on (idiom)
狡兔死走狗烹	jiao	peng	see 兔死狗烹[tu4 si3 gou3 peng1]
独一无二	du	er	(idiom) unique; unmatched; unrivalled
独二代	du	dai	second generation only child
独体字	du	zi	single-component character
独具匠心	du	xin	original and ingenious (idiom); to show great creativity
独具只眼	du	yan	to see what others fail to see (idiom); to have exceptional insight
独出一时	du	shi	incomparable; head and shoulders above the competition
独出心裁	du	cai	to display originality (idiom); to do things differently
独创性	du	xing	innovative; ingenious; originality; ingenuity
独占鳌头	du	tou	(idiom) to come first in triennial palace examinations (refers to the carved stone turtle head in front of the imperial palace, next to which the most successful candidate in the imperial examinations was entitled to stand); to be the champion; to be the very best in any field
独善其身	du	shen	(idiom) (originally, in Mencius) to cultivate one's moral character in solitude; (modern sense) to look after only one's own interests
独在异乡为异客	du	ke	a stranger in a strange land (from a poem by Wang Wei 王維|王维[Wang2 Wei2])
独夫民贼	du	zei	tyrant and oppressor of the people (idiom); traitorous dictator
独头蒜	du	suan	solo garlic; single-clove garlic
独子蒜	du	suan	solo garlic; single-clove garlic
独孤求败	du	bai	Dugu Qiubai, a fictional character appearing in 金庸[Jin1 Yong1] novels
独守空房	du	fang	(of a married woman) to stay home alone
独尊儒术	du	shu	dismiss the hundred schools, revere only the Confucians (slogan of the Former Han dynasty)
独居石	du	shi	monazite
独山县	du	xian	Dushan, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
独山子	du	zi	see 獨山子區|独山子区[Du2 shan1 zi3 Qu1]
独山子区	du	qu	Dushanzi, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
独当一面	du	mian	to assume personal responsibility (idiom); to take charge of a section
独往独来	du	lai	see 獨來獨往|独来独往[du2 lai2 du2 wang3]
独揽市场	du	chang	to monopolize a market
独放异彩	du	cai	to project singular splendor or radiance; to perform brilliantly
独断专行	du	xing	to decide and act alone (idiom); to take arbitrary action; a law unto oneself
独断独行	du	xing	to decide and act alone (idiom); to take arbitrary action; a law unto oneself
独木不成林	du	lin	a lone tree does not make a forest (idiom); one cannot accomplish much on one's own
独木桥	du	qiao	single-log bridge; (fig.) difficult path
独木舟	du	zhou	dugout; canoe; kayak
独来独往	du	wang	(idiom) to come and go alone; to act independently; (fig.) to keep to oneself; to be a loner
独树一帜	du	zhi	lit. to fly one's banner on a solitary tree (idiom); fig. to act as a loner; to stand out; to develop one's own school
独树一格	du	ge	to have a unique style of one's own (idiom)
独生女	du	nv	a daughter who is an only child
独生子	du	zi	a son who is an only child
独生子女	du	nv	an only child
独生子女政策	du	ce	one-child policy
独眼巨人	du	ren	cyclops
独眼龙	du	long	one-eyed person
独立中文笔会	du	hui	Independent Chinese PEN center
独立国家联合体	du	ti	Commonwealth of Independent States (former Soviet Union)
独立宣言	du	yan	Declaration of Independence
独立战争	du	zheng	war of independence
独立报	du	bao	The Independent
独立显卡	du	ka	(computing) discrete GPU; dedicated GPU
独立自主	du	zhu	independent and autonomous (idiom); self-determination; to act independently; to maintain control over one's own affairs
独立选民	du	min	independent voter
独立钻石	du	shi	solitaire (puzzle)
独立门户	du	hu	to live apart from parents (of married couple); to achieve independence
独联体	du	ti	Commonwealth of Independent States (former Soviet Union); abbr. for 獨立國家聯合體|独立国家联合体
独胆英雄	du	xiong	see 孤膽英雄|孤胆英雄[gu1 dan3 ying1 xiong2]
独脚戏	du	xi	variant of 獨角戲|独角戏[du2 jiao3 xi4]
独脚跳	du	tiao	to jump on one foot; to hop
独行侠	du	xia	loner; lone wolf
独行其是	du	shi	to go one's own way (idiom); to act independently without asking others
独裁者	du	zhe	dictator; autocrat
独角仙	du	xian	rhinoceros beetle
独角兽	du	shou	unicorn
独角戏	du	xi	monodrama; one-man show; comic talk
独角鲸	du	jing	narwhal (Monodon monoceros)
独词句	du	ju	one-word sentence
独轮车	du	che	wheelbarrow; unicycle
独辟蹊径	du	jing	to blaze a new trail (idiom); to display originality
独院儿	du	r	erhua variant of 獨院|独院[du2 yuan4]
独霸一方	du	fang	to exercise sole hegemony (idiom); to dominate a whole area (market, resources etc); to hold as one's personal fiefdom
独领风骚	du	sao	most outstanding; par excellence
独龙族	du	zu	Derung ethnic group
独龙江	du	jiang	Dulong river in northwest Yunnan on border with Myanmar, tributary of Salween or Nujiang 怒江, sometimes referred to as number four of Three parallel rivers 三江並流|三江并流, wildlife protection unit
狭义相对论	xia	lun	(physics) special relativity
狭路相逢	xia	feng	lit. to meet face to face on a narrow path (idiom); fig. enemies or rivals meet face to face
狮头石竹	shi	zhu	grenadine; carnation; clove pink
狮子大开口	shi	kou	(saying) (fig.) to make an exorbitant demand; to ask for an outrageously high price
狮子头	shi	tou	large meatball ("lion's head")
狮子山	shi	shan	(Tw) Sierra Leone
狮子座	shi	zuo	Leo (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
狮子林园	shi	yuan	Lion Grove Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
狮子狗	shi	gou	Pekingese; Pekinese
狮尾狒	shi	fei	gelada (Theropithecus gelada), Ethiopian herbivorous monkey similar to baboon; also written 吉爾達|吉尔达[ji2 er3 da2]
狮心王理查	shi	cha	Richard the Lionheart (1157-1199), King Richard I of England 1189-1199
狮泉河	shi	he	Sengge Tsangpo or Shiquan River in west Tibet, the upper reaches of the Indus
狮虎兽	shi	shou	liger, hybrid cross between a male lion and a tigress
狮身人面像	shi	xiang	sphinx
狸花猫	li	mao	Dragon Li (modern Chinese cat breed)
狼吞虎咽	lang	yan	to wolf down one's food (idiom); to devour ravenously; to gorge oneself
狼图腾	lang	teng	Wolf Totem, novel by Lü Jiamin 呂嘉民|吕嘉民[Lu:3 Jia1 min2] aka Jiang Rong 姜戎[Jiang1 Rong2]
狼多肉少	lang	shao	many wolves and not enough meat; not enough to go around
狼奔豕突	lang	tu	the wolf runs and the wild boar rushes (idiom); crowds of evil-doers mill around like wild beasts
狼子野心	lang	xin	ambition of wild wolves (idiom); rapacious designs
狼心狗肺	lang	fei	lit. heart of wolf and lungs of dog (idiom); cruel and unscrupulous
狼烟四起	lang	qi	fire beacons on all sides (idiom); enveloped in the flames of war
狼牙山	lang	shan	Mount Langya in Hebei
狼狈不堪	lang	kan	battered and exhausted; stuck in a dilemma
狼狈为奸	lang	jian	villains collude together (idiom); to work hand in glove with sb (to nefarious ends)
狼虫虎豹	lang	bao	(idiom) ferocious beasts
猇亭区	xiao	qu	Xiaoting, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
猎户座	lie	zuo	Orion (constellation)
猎户座大星云	lie	yun	the Great Nebula in Orion M42
猎户座流星雨	lie	yu	Orionids; Orionid meteor shower
猎户臂	lie	bi	Orion spiral arm or local spur of our galaxy (containing our solar system)
猎杀红色十月号	lie	hao	"The Hunt for Red October", a novel by Tom Clancy
猎潜艇	lie	ting	anti-submarine vessel
猎犬座	lie	zuo	Canes Venatici (constellation)
猕猴桃	mi	tao	kiwi fruit; Chinese gooseberry
猖猖狂狂	chang	kuang	wild; hurried and confused; hell-for-leather
猛一看	meng	kan	at first glance; first impression
猛不防	meng	fang	suddenly; unexpectedly; taken by surprise
猛劲儿	meng	r	to dash; to put on a spurt; to redouble efforts
猛犸象	meng	xiang	see 猛獁|猛犸[meng3 ma3]
猛龙怪客	meng	ke	Death wish, movie series with Charles Bronson
猜不透	cai	tou	to be unable to guess or make out
猜得透	cai	tou	to have sufficient insight to perceive; to suspect that ...
猜谜儿	cai	r	to answer a riddle; to guess (i.e. form an opinion without much evidence)
猝不及防	cu	fang	to be caught off guard; without warning
猝睡症	cu	zheng	narcolepsy
猥亵性暴露	wei	lu	indecent exposure; flashing
猩红热	xing	re	scarlet fever
猩红色	xing	se	scarlet (color)
猪下水	zhu	shui	pig offal
猪仔包	zhu	bao	a French-style bread, similar to a small baguette, commonly seen in Hong Kong and Macao
猪八戒	zhu	jie	Zhu Bajie, the pig character and second disciple of Tang Sanzang 唐三藏[Tang2 San1 zang4] in "Journey to the West" 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 ji4]
猪婆龙	zhu	long	Chinese alligator (Alligator sinensis)
猪悟能	zhu	neng	Zhu Bajie 豬八戒|猪八戒[Zhu1 Ba1 jie4] or Zhu Wuneng, Pigsy or Pig (in Journey to the West)
猪拱菌	zhu	jun	Chinese truffle
猪朋狗友	zhu	you	dissolute companions; disreputable comrades
猪水泡病	zhu	bing	swine vesicular disease (SVD)
猪流感	zhu	gan	swine influenza; swine flu; influenza A (H1N1)
猪流感病毒	zhu	du	swine influenza virus (SIV)
猪狗不如	zhu	ru	worse than a dog or pig; lower than low
猪笼草	zhu	cao	tropical pitcher plant (i.e. genus Nepenthes)
猪脚饭	zhu	fan	pork-leg rice – either a Guangdong (Chaozhou-Shantou) specialty of braised pork leg over rice or the Thai-Chinese dish "khao kha mu"
猪膻味	zhu	wei	boar taint, the taste or odor of sweat or urine in pork from uncastrated pigs
猪血糕	zhu	gao	pig's blood cake, popular as a snack in Taiwan, made from glutinous rice and pig's blood, typically coated in peanut powder and coriander and served with dipping sauces
猪链球菌	zhu	jun	pig streptococcus; streptococcus suis
猪链球菌病	zhu	bing	streptococcus suis (swine-borne disease)
猪队友	zhu	you	(slang) incompetent teammate, coworker etc
猫儿山	mao	shan	Kitten Mountain, Guangxi
猫哭老鼠	mao	shu	the cat weeps for the dead mouse (idiom); hypocritical pretence of condolence; crocodile tears
猫哭耗子	mao	zi	the cat weeps for the dead mouse (idiom); hypocritical pretence of condolence; crocodile tears
猫声鸟	mao	niao	catbird
猫头鹰	mao	ying	owl
猫屎咖啡	mao	fei	"kopi luwak" or civet coffee, made from coffee beans plucked from Asian palm civet's feces
猫抓病	mao	bing	cat scratch disease; cat scratch fever
猫眼儿	mao	r	erhua variant of 貓眼|猫眼[mao1 yan3]
猫舌头	mao	tou	(fig.) (coll.) sensitivity to hot food or drink; person who has such a sensitivity
猫薄荷	mao	he	catnip; catmint
猫雾族	mao	zu	Babuza, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
猫鼠游戏	mao	xi	cat and mouse game
献殷勤	xian	qin	to be particularly attentive to (an attractive young lady or man etc); to fawn upon (an influential politician etc); to court sb's favor; to ingratiate oneself
献爱心	xian	xin	to give to the needy; to donate to charity
献血者	xian	zhe	blood donor
猴儿精	hou	jing	(dialect) shrewd; clever
猴头菇	hou	gu	Hericium erinaceus
猴子偷桃	hou	tao	"monkey steals the peach" (martial arts), distracting an opponent with one hand and seizing his testicles with the other; (coll.) grabbing sb by the balls
猴孩子	hou	zi	little devil
猴年马月	hou	yue	long time off; time that will never come
猴猴族	hou	zu	Qauqaut, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
猴皮筋	hou	jin	(coll.) rubber band
猴面包树	hou	shu	African baobab; monkey-bread tree (Adansonia digitata)
獐头鼠目	zhang	mu	lit. the head of a river deer and the eyes of a rat (idiom); fig. repulsively ugly and shifty-looking
玄之又玄	xuan	xuan	mystery within a mystery; the mysteries of the Dao according to Laozi 老子[Lao3 zi3]
玄武区	xuan	qu	Xuanwu, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
玄武岩	xuan	yan	(geology) basalt
玄武质熔岩	xuan	yan	basalt; also written 玄熔岩[xuan2 rong2 yan2]
玄武门之变	xuan	bian	Xuanwu gate coup of June 626 in early Tang, in which Li Shimin 李世民 killed his brothers, seized the throne from his father as Emperor Taizong 唐太宗
玄米茶	xuan	cha	genmaicha; Japanese tea with added roasted brown rice
玄菟郡	xuan	jun	Xuantu commandery (108 BC-c. 300 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
率兽食人	shuai	ren	lit. to lead beasts to eat the people (idiom); fig. tyrannical government oppresses the people
率尔操觚	shuai	gu	to compose in off-hand way (idiom); to dash off
率由旧章	shuai	zhang	to act in accordance with the old rules (idiom); to follow a proven formula
玉人吹箫	yu	xiao	virtuoso piper wins a beauty; the xiao 簫|箫[xiao1] (mouth organ) virtuoso 蕭史|萧史[Xiao1 Shi3] won for his wife the beautiful daughter of Duke Mu of Qin 秦穆公[Qin2 Mu4 gong1]
玉兰花	yu	hua	magnolia
玉夫座	yu	zuo	Sculptor (constellation)
玉头姬鹟	yu	weng	(bird species of China) sapphire flycatcher (Ficedula sapphira)
玉屏侗族自治县	yu	xian	Yuping Dong Autonomous County, in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
玉屏县	yu	xian	see 玉屏侗族自治縣|玉屏侗族自治县[Yu4 ping2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
玉山县	yu	xian	Yushan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
玉山噪鹛	yu	mei	(bird species of China) white-whiskered laughingthrush (Trochalopteron morrisonianum)
玉山雀鹛	yu	mei	(bird species of China) Taiwan fulvetta (Fulvetta formosana)
玉川市	yu	shi	Tamagawa city in Akita prefecture, Japan
玉州区	yu	qu	Yuzhou, a district of Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
玉带海雕	yu	diao	(bird species of China) Pallas's fish eagle (Haliaeetus leucoryphus)
玉普西隆	yu	long	upsilon (Greek letter Υυ)
玉林市	yu	shi	Yulin, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
玉树州	yu	zhou	see 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
玉树市	yu	shi	Yushu, a county-level city in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
玉树藏族自治州	yu	zhou	Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
玉泉区	yu	qu	Yuquan, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
玉泉营	yu	ying	Yuquanying
玉洁冰清	yu	qing	clear as ice and clean as jade (idiom); spotless; irreproachable; incorruptible
玉溪市	yu	shi	Yuxi, prefecture-level city in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
玉玉症	yu	zheng	(slang) clinical depression
玉环市	yu	shi	Yuhuan, a county-level city in Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
玉田县	yu	xian	Yutian, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
玉皇大帝	yu	di	Jade Emperor
玉皇顶	yu	ding	Jade Emperor Peak on Mt Tai in Shandong
玉石俱焚	yu	fen	to burn both jade and common stone; to destroy indiscriminately (idiom)
玉米棒	yu	bang	corn cob
玉米淀粉	yu	fen	corn starch
玉米片	yu	pian	cornflakes; tortilla chips
玉米笋	yu	sun	baby corn
玉米粉	yu	fen	cornflour; corn starch
玉米粒	yu	li	corn kernel
玉米糁	yu	san	corn grits
玉米糕	yu	gao	corn cake; polenta (corn mush)
玉米糖浆	yu	jiang	corn syrup
玉米花	yu	hua	popcorn
玉米赤霉烯酮	yu	tong	zearalenone
玉米面	yu	mian	cornmeal; maize flour
玉米饼	yu	bing	corn cake; Mexican tortilla
玉素甫	yu	fu	Yusuf, Arabic given name (Joseph)
玉红省	yu	sheng	rubicene (chemistry)
玉荷包	yu	bao	jade purse, a cultivar of lychee
玉蜀黍	yu	shu	corn
玉门关	yu	guan	Yumen Pass, or Jade Gate, western frontier post on the Silk Road in the Han Dynasty, west of Dunhuang, in Gansu
玉门市	yu	shi	Yumen, a county-level city in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
玉龙县	yu	xian	see 玉龍納西族自治縣|玉龙纳西族自治县[Yu4 long2 Na4 xi1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
玉龙纳西族自治县	yu	xian	Yulong Naxi Autonomous County, in Lijiang City 麗江市|丽江市[Li4 jiang1 Shi4], Yunnan
玉龙雪山	yu	shan	Mt Yulong or Jade dragon in Lijiang 麗江|丽江, northwest Yunnan
王不留行	wang	xing	cowherb (Vaccaria segetalis); cowherb seeds (used in TCM)
王世充	wang	chong	Wang Shichong (-621), general of late Sui and opponent of early Tang
王义夫	wang	fu	Wang Yifu (1960-), male PRC pistol shooter and Olympic medalist
王仙芝	wang	zhi	Wang Xianzhi, peasant leader during Huang Chao peasant uprising 黃巢起義|黄巢起义 875-884 in late Tang
王侯公卿	wang	qing	aristocracy
王侯将相	wang	xiang	(lit.) kings, nobles, generals and ministers (idiom); (fig.) people of the highest rank and status; the ruling elite
王八犊子	wang	zi	see 王八蛋[wang2 ba1 dan4]
王八羔子	wang	zi	see 王八蛋[wang2 ba1 dan4]
王八蛋	wang	dan	bastard; son of a bitch
王军霞	wang	xia	Wang Junxia (1973-), Chinese long-distance runner
王力宏	wang	hong	Wang Lee-Hom (1976-), Taiwanese-American singer
王力雄	wang	xiong	Wang Lixiong (1953-), Chinese writer, author of Yellow Peril 黃禍|黄祸[Huang2 huo4]
王励勤	wang	qin	Wang Liqin (1978-), former PRC table tennis player, Olympic medalist
王叔文	wang	wen	Wang Shuwen (735–806), Tang dynasty scholar, politician and Go player, leader of the failed Yongzhen Reform 永貞革新|永贞革新[Yong3 zhen1 Ge2 xin1] of 805
王君如	wang	ru	Cyndi Wang (1982-), Taiwanese singer and actress
王嘉尔	wang	er	Jackson Wang (1994–), Hong Kong singer, rapper and dancer, member of GOT7 and founder of Team Wang
王国维	wang	wei	Wang Guowei (1877-1927), noted scholar
王国聚会所	wang	suo	Kingdom Hall (place of worship used by Jehovah's Witnesses)
王士禛	wang	zhen	Wang Shizhen (1634-1711), early Qing poet
王太后	wang	hou	Queen Dowager (in Europe); widowed queen; Queen mother
王夫之	wang	zhi	Wang Fuzhi (1619-1692), wide-ranging scholar of the Ming-Qing transition
王婆卖瓜自卖自夸	wang	kua	every potter praises his own pot (idiom); all one's geese are swans
王安石	wang	shi	Wang Anshi (1021-1086), Song dynasty politician and writer, one of the Eight Giants 唐宋八大家
王实甫	wang	fu	Wang Shifu (fl. 1295-1307), author of Romance of the West Chamber 西廂記|西厢记
王家卫	wang	wei	Wong Kar-wai (1956-), Hong Kong film director
王小波	wang	bo	Wang Xiaobo (1952-1997), scholar and novelist
王岐山	wang	shan	Wang Qishan (1948-), PRC politician
王岱舆	wang	yu	Wang Daiyu (1584-1670), Hui Islamic scholar of the Ming-Qing transition
王希孟	wang	meng	Wang Ximeng (c. 1096-c. 1119), Song artist, probably teenage prodigy who died young, painter of Thousand Miles of Landscape 千里江山
王府井	wang	jing	Wangfujing, a shopping district in Beijing, known for its pedestrian street, luxury brands, traditional stores and vibrant food markets
王心凌	wang	ling	stage name of Cyndi Wang; see 王君如[Wang2 Jun1 ru2]
王昭君	wang	jun	Wang Zhaojun (52-19 BC), famous beauty at the court of Han emperor Yuan 漢元帝|汉元帝[Han4 Yuan2 di4], one of the four legendary beauties 四大美女[si4 da4 mei3 nu:3]
王杨卢骆	wang	luo	abbr. for Wang Bo 王勃[Wang2 Bo2], Yang Jiong 楊炯|杨炯[Yang2 Jiong3], Lu Zhaolin 盧照鄰|卢照邻[Lu2 Zhao4 lin2], and Luo Binwang 駱賓王|骆宾王[Luo4 Bin1 wang2], the Four Great Poets of the Early Tang
王母娘娘	wang	niang	another name for Xi Wangmu 西王母, Queen Mother of the West
王永民	wang	min	Wang Yongmin (1943-), inventor of the five stroke input method 五筆輸入法|五笔输入法[wu3 bi3 shu1 ru4 fa3]
王治郅	wang	zhi	Wang Zhizhi (1977-), former Chinese basketball player
王洪文	wang	wen	Wang Hongwen (1935-1992), one of the Gang of Four
王益区	wang	qu	Wangyi, a district of Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
王祖贤	wang	xian	Joey Wong (1967-), Taiwanese actress
王禹偁	wang	cheng	Wang Yucheng (954-1001) Song dynasty literary figure
王羲之	wang	zhi	Wang Xizhi (303-361), famous calligrapher of Eastern Jin, known as the sage of calligraphy 書聖|书圣
王老五	wang	wu	bachelor (lit. fifth child of the Wangs)
王老吉	wang	ji	Wanglaoji (beverage brand)
王钦若	wang	ruo	Wang Qinruo (962-1025), Northern Song dynasty official
王锦蛇	wang	she	king ratsnake (Elaphe carinata)
王阳明	wang	ming	Wang Yangming (1472-1529), Ming dynasty Neo-Confucian philosopher, influential in the School of Mind 心學|心学[xin1 xue2]
玛丽亚	ma	ya	Maria (name)
玛丽娅	ma	ya	Maria (name); St Mary
玛丽苏	ma	su	(slang) Mary Sue (character type in fiction)
玛仁糖	ma	tang	traditional Xinjiang sweet walnut cake
玛俐欧	ma	ou	Mario (Nintendo video game character); also transcribed variously as 馬里奧|马里奥[Ma3 li3 ao4], 馬力歐|马力欧[Ma3 li4 ou1] etc
玛克辛	ma	xin	Maxine (name)
玛利亚	ma	ya	Mary (biblical name)
玛多县	ma	xian	Madoi, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
玛奇朵	ma	duo	macchiato (loanword); latte macchiato (coffee)
玛德琳	ma	lin	Madeleine (name)
玛拉基书	ma	shu	Book of Malachi
玛拉基亚	ma	ya	Malachi
玛拿西	ma	xi	Manasseh (son of Hezekiah)
玛曲县	ma	xian	Maqu, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
玛格丽特	ma	te	Margaret (name)
玛沁县	ma	xian	Maqên, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
玛瑙贝	ma	bei	cowrie
玛窦福音	ma	yin	Gospel according to St Matthew
玛纳斯	ma	si	Manas, hero of Kyrghiz epic saga; Manas county and town in Changji Hui autonomous prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
玛纳斯县	ma	xian	Manas, a county in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
玛纳斯河	ma	he	Manas River, Xinjiang
玛莎拉	ma	la	(loanword) masala
玛莎拉蒂	ma	di	Maserati
玛迪达	ma	da	Matilda (name)
玛雅人	ma	ren	Maya peoples
玩不起	wan	qi	can't afford to play; (fig.) can't accept it when one loses
玩世不恭	wan	gong	to trifle without respect (idiom); to despise worldly conventions; frivolous
玩人丧德	wan	de	to play with others and offend morals; wicked
玩偶之家	wan	jia	Doll's House (1879), drama by Ibsen 易卜生
玩儿不转	wan	zhuan	can't handle it; can't find any way (of doing sth); not up to the task
玩儿命	wan	ming	to gamble with life; to take reckless risks
玩儿坏	wan	huai	to play tricks on sb
玩儿完	wan	wan	erhua form of 玩完[wan2 wan2]
玩儿得转	wan	zhuan	can handle it; up to the task
玩儿票	wan	piao	amateur dramatics
玩儿花招	wan	zhao	to play tricks
玩具厂	wan	chang	toy factory
玩具枪	wan	qiang	toy gun
玩失踪	wan	zong	to hide oneself (as a joke)
玩家角色	wan	se	player character (in a role-playing game)
玩弄词藻	wan	zao	to juggle with words (dishonestly); to be a hypocrite and hide behind florid rhetoric
玩忽职守	wan	shou	to neglect one's duty; dereliction of duty; malpractice
玩意儿	wan	r	erhua variant of 玩意[wan2 yi4]
玩手腕	wan	wan	to play tricks; to play at politics
玩火自焚	wan	fen	to play with fire and get burnt (idiom); fig. to play with evil and suffer the consequences; to get one's fingers burnt
玩物丧志	wan	zhi	lit. trifling destroys the will (idiom); infatuation with fine details prevents one making progress; excessive attention to trivia saps the will
玩艺儿	wan	r	variant of 玩意兒|玩意儿[wan2 yi4 r5]
玩花招	wan	zhao	to play tricks
玩阴的	wan	de	(coll.) to play dirty; to use underhanded tactics; (coll.) sneaky; underhanded
玫瑰念珠	mei	zhu	rosary (Catholic prayer beads)
玫瑰战争	mei	zheng	The Wars of the Roses (1455-1485)
玫瑰星云	mei	yun	Rosette nebula NGC 2237
玫瑰果	mei	guo	rose hip
玫瑰花	mei	hua	rose
玫瑰茄	mei	qie	roselle (Hibiscus sabdariffa)
玫红眉朱雀	mei	que	(bird species of China) pink-browed rosefinch (Carpodacus rodochroa)
环保主义	huan	yi	environmentalism
环保主义者	huan	zhe	environmentalist
环保厅	huan	ting	(provincial) department of environmental protection
环保型	huan	xing	environmental; environmentally friendly
环保局	huan	ju	environment protection office; PRC National bureau of environmental protection
环保斗士	huan	shi	an environmental activist; a fighter for environmental protection
环保科学	huan	xue	environmental science
环保筷	huan	kuai	reusable chopsticks (Tw)
环卫工	huan	gong	sanitation worker
环卫工人	huan	ren	sanitation worker
环境保护	huan	hu	environmental protection
环境创设	huan	she	design of a learning environment for young children, incorporating artwork designed to appeal to them
环境卫生	huan	sheng	environmental sanitation; abbr. to 環衛|环卫[huan2 wei4]
环境因素	huan	su	environmental factor
环境影响	huan	xiang	environmental impact
环境影响评估	huan	gu	environmental impact assessment EIA; abbr. to 環評|环评
环境损害	huan	hai	environmental damage
环境污染	huan	ran	environmental pollution
环境温度	huan	du	environmental temperature
环境行动主义	huan	yi	environmentalism; environmental activism
环太平洋	huan	yang	Pacific Rim
环太平洋地震带	huan	dai	Ring of Fire (circum-Pacific seismic belt)
环太平洋火山带	huan	dai	Ring of Fire (circum-Pacific seismic belt)
环形公路	huan	lu	ring road; beltway
环形山	huan	shan	crater; ring-shaped mountain
环形结构	huan	gou	ring configuration
环形路	huan	lu	circular road; circuit
环戊烯	huan	xi	cyclopentene C5H8 (ring of five carbon atoms)
环极涡旋	huan	xuan	circumpolar vortex
环氧乙烷	huan	wan	ethylene oxide
环氧树脂	huan	zhi	epoxy resin (chemistry)
环江县	huan	xian	see 環江毛南族自治縣|环江毛南族自治县[Huan2 jiang1 Mao2 nan2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
环江毛南族自治县	huan	xian	Huanjiang Maonan Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
环法自行车赛	huan	sai	Tour de France cycle race
环渤海湾地区	huan	qu	Bohai Economic Rim (economic region including Beijing, Tianjin, Hebei, Liaoning and Shandong)
环烷烃	huan	ting	cycloalkane
环状列石	huan	shi	circular standing stones
环环相扣	huan	kou	closely linked with one another; interlocked; to interrelate
环球化	huan	hua	globalization
环球唱片	huan	pian	Universal Records
环球定位系统	huan	tong	GPS (Global Positioning System)
环球旅行	huan	xing	journey around the world
环球时报	huan	bao	Global Times (weekly digest of international news from People's Daily 人民日報|人民日报[Ren2 min2 Ri4 bao4])
环球音乐集团	huan	tuan	Universal Music Group
环磷酰胺	huan	an	cyclophosphamide (medication)
环秀山庄	huan	zhuang	Mountain Villa with Embracing Beauty in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
环翠区	huan	qu	Huancui, a district of Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
环节动物	huan	wu	annelid (worm)
环节动物门	huan	men	Annelidan, the phylum of annelid worms
环顾四周	huan	zhou	to look around
环颈山鹧鸪	huan	gu	(bird species of China) hill partridge (Arborophila torqueola)
环颈鸻	huan	heng	(bird species of China) Kentish plover (Anarhynchus alexandrinus)
现世宝	xian	bao	good-for-nothing; fool
现世报	xian	bao	karmic retribution within one's lifetime
现代五项	xian	xiang	modern pentathlon
现代人	xian	ren	modern man; Homo sapiens
现代化	xian	hua	modernization; CL:個|个[ge4]
现代史	xian	shi	modern history
现代形式	xian	shi	the modern form
现代性	xian	xing	modernity
现代新儒家	xian	jia	Modern New Confucianism; see also 新儒家[Xin1 Ru2 jia1]
现代派	xian	pai	modernist faction; modernists
现代舞	xian	wu	modern dance
现代集团	xian	tuan	Hyundai, the Korean corporation
现代音乐	xian	yue	modern music; contemporary music
现在分词	xian	ci	present participle (in English grammar)
现在式	xian	shi	present tense
现场会	xian	hui	on-the-spot meeting
现场会议	xian	yi	on-the-spot meeting
现场投注	xian	zhu	live betting
现场报道	xian	dao	on-the-spot report
现场直播	xian	bo	on-the-spot live broadcast
现场视察	xian	cha	on-site inspection
现场采访	xian	fang	on-the-spot interview
现如今	xian	jin	nowadays; now
现学现用	xian	yong	to immediately put into practice something one has just learned (idiom)
现实主义	xian	yi	realism
现实情况	xian	kuang	current state; current situation
现成话	xian	hua	ready-made phrase; unhelpful comment
现炒现卖	xian	mai	lit. to fry and sell on the spot; fig. (of fresh graduates) to apply the still-fresh knowledge gained in school
现行犯	xian	fan	criminal caught red-handed
现象学	xian	xue	phenomenology
现象级	xian	ji	phenomenal
现货价	xian	jia	price of actuals
现身说法	xian	fa	to talk from one's personal experience; to use oneself as an example
现金周转	xian	zhuan	cash flow
现金基础	xian	chu	cash basis (accounting)
现金流	xian	liu	cash flow
现金流转	xian	zhuan	cash flow
现金流转表	xian	biao	cash flow statement
现金流量	xian	liang	cash flow
现金流量表	xian	biao	cash flow statement
现金牛	xian	niu	cash cow
现阶段	xian	duan	at the present stage
玲珑剔透	ling	tou	exquisitely made; very clever
玳瑁壳	dai	ke	tortoise shell
玳瑁眼镜	dai	jing	hawksbill shell-rimmed eyeglasses; CL:副[fu4]
玻利尼西亚	bo	ya	Polynesia
玻利维亚	bo	ya	Bolivia
玻尔兹曼	bo	man	Ludwig Boltzmann (1844-1906), Austrian physicist and philosopher
玻尿酸	bo	suan	hyaluronic acid; hyaluronan
玻意耳	bo	er	Robert Boyle (1627-1691), English chemist
玻璃体	bo	ti	vitreous humor
玻璃化	bo	hua	vitrification
玻璃市	bo	shi	Perlis, state of Malaysia adjacent to Thailand, capital Kangar 加央[Jia1 yang1]
玻璃心	bo	xin	(slang) overly sensitive; butthurt
玻璃杯	bo	bei	drinking glass
玻璃水	bo	shui	windshield washer fluid
玻璃球	bo	qiu	a marble (used in games)
玻璃砂	bo	sha	siliceous sand (geology)
玻璃管	bo	guan	glass tube
玻璃纤维	bo	wei	fiberglass; glass fiber
玻璃纸	bo	zhi	cellophane
玻璃罩	bo	zhao	glass cover; bell glass
玻璃钢	bo	gang	glass-reinforced plastic; fiberglass
玻色子	bo	zi	boson (particle physics)
玻里尼西亚	bo	ya	Polynesia (Tw)
珂罗版	ke	ban	collotype (printing) (loanword)
珊瑚礁	shan	jiao	coral reef
珍多冰	zhen	bing	cendol, Southeast Asian iced sweet dessert
珍珠奶茶	zhen	cha	pearl milk tea; tapioca milk tea; bubble milk tea
珍珠岩	zhen	yan	perlite
珍珠母	zhen	mu	mother-of-pearl (used in ornamentation and in TCM)
珍珠港	zhen	gang	Pearl Harbor (Hawaii)
珍珠翡翠白玉汤	zhen	tang	cabbage, rice and tofu soup
珍珠鸡	zhen	ji	guinea fowl
珍禽奇兽	zhen	shou	rare animals and birds
珍馐美味	zhen	wei	delicacy and fine taste (idiom); a wonderful treat
珍馐美馔	zhen	zhuan	delicacy and fine taste (idiom); a wonderful treat
珐琅质	fa	zhi	(old) tooth enamel (still in use in Taiwan)
珞巴族	luo	zu	Lhoba ethnic group
珞巴语	luo	yu	Lhoba, language of Lhoba ethnic group of southeast Tibet
珠三角	zhu	jiao	Pearl River Delta
珠光宝气	zhu	qi	bedecked with glittering jewels (idiom)
珠圆玉润	zhu	run	lit. as round as pearls and as smooth as jade (idiom); fig. elegant and polished (of singing or writing)
珠山区	zhu	qu	Zhushan, a district of Jingdezhen City 景德鎮市|景德镇市[Jing3 de2 zhen4 Shi4], Jiangxi
珠晖区	zhu	qu	Zhuhui, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
珠江三角洲	zhu	zhou	Pearl River Delta (PRD)
珠流璧转	zhu	zhuan	lit. pearl flows, jade moves on (idiom); fig. the passage of time; water under the bridge
珠海市	zhu	shi	Zhuhai, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
珠玉在侧	zhu	ce	gems at the side (idiom); flanked by genius
珠穆朗玛	zhu	ma	Mount Everest (from its Tibetan name, Chomolungma)
珠穆朗玛峰	zhu	feng	Mount Everest (from its Tibetan name, Chomolungma)
珠联璧合	zhu	he	string of pearl and jade (idiom); ideal combination; perfect pair
珠胎暗结	zhu	jie	to get pregnant out of wedlock
珠颈斑鸠	zhu	jiu	(bird species of China) spotted dove (Spilopelia chinensis)
珣玗琪	xun	qi	type of ancient jade
班主任	ban	ren	teacher in charge of a class
班伯利	ban	li	Bunbury, coastal city in Western Australia
班伯里	ban	li	Bunbury, coastal city in Western Australia; Banbury, town in Oxfordshire, England
班克斯	ban	si	(surname) Banks; Banksy (UK artist)
班克西	ban	xi	Banksy (British street artist)
班加罗尔	ban	er	Bangalore, capital of southwest Indian state Karnataka 卡納塔克邦|卡纳塔克邦[Ka3 na4 ta3 ke4 bang1]
班务会	ban	hui	a routine meeting of a squad; team or class
班卓琴	ban	qin	(loanword) banjo
班图斯坦	ban	tan	Bantustan
班导师	ban	shi	(Tw) teacher in charge of a class; homeroom teacher
班戈县	ban	xian	Baingoin, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
班玛县	ban	xian	Banma, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
班珠尔	ban	er	Banjul, capital of Gambia
班禅喇嘛	ban	ma	Panchen Lama
班禅额尔德尼	ban	ni	Panchen Erdeni or Panchen Lama; abbr. to 班禪|班禅[Ban1 chan2]
班辈儿	ban	r	seniority in the family; pecking order
班达亚齐	ban	qi	Banda Aceh, capital of Aceh province of Indonesia in northwest Sumatra
班达海	ban	hai	Banda Sea, in the East Indian Archipelago
班门弄斧	ban	fu	to display one's slight skill before an expert (idiom)
班雅明	ban	ming	Benjamin (name)
珲春市	hun	shi	Hunchun, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
球场会馆	qiu	guan	clubhouse (golf)
球孢子菌病	qiu	bing	Coccidioidomycosis
球栅阵列封装	qiu	zhuang	ball grid array (BGA), type of microchip package
球状物	qiu	wu	globe
球状蛋白质	qiu	zhi	globular protein
球磨机	qiu	ji	ball mill
球粒陨石	qiu	shi	chondrite (type of meteorite)
球腔菌	qiu	jun	Mycosphaerella (genus of sac fungus, a plant pathogen)
球芽甘蓝	qiu	lan	Brussels sprouts (Brassica oleracea L. var. gemmifera)
球蛋白	qiu	bai	globulin
球面几何	qiu	he	spherical geometry
球面度	qiu	du	steradian (math.)
琅威理	lang	li	Captain William M Lang (1843-), British adviser to the Qing north China navy 北洋水師|北洋水师 during the 1880s
琅琊区	lang	qu	Langya, a district of Chuzhou City 滁州市[Chu2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
琅琊山	lang	shan	Mt Langya in eastern Anhui Province
理中客	li	ke	rational, neutral, objective (abbr. for 理性、中立、客觀|理性、中立、客观[li3 xing4 , zhong1 li4 , ke4 guan1])
理事会	li	hui	council
理事长	li	zhang	director general
理则学	li	xue	logic
理化因素	li	su	physical and chemical factors
理发厅	li	ting	(Tw) barbershop; hairdresser's; CL:家[jia1]
理发员	li	yuan	barber; hairdresser
理发器	li	qi	hair clippers
理发师	li	shi	barber; hairdresser
理发店	li	dian	barbershop; hairdresser's; CL:家[jia1]
理发院	li	yuan	barbershop; hairdresser's
理塘县	li	xian	Litang, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
理学家	li	jia	scholar of the rationalist school of Neo-Confucianism 理學|理学[Li3 xue2]
理学硕士	li	shi	M.Sc. (Master of Science degree)
理容院	li	yuan	hairdresser and beauty parlor; barbershop; massage parlor
理屈词穷	li	qiong	lit. having presented a flawed argument, one has nothing further to add (idiom); fig. unable to provide a convincing argument to support one's position; to not have a leg to stand on
理工大学	li	xue	University of Science and Engineering; also sometimes Institute of Technology
理工男	li	nan	geek; techie
理工科	li	ke	science and engineering as academic subjects
理性与感性	li	xing	Sense and Sensibility, novel by Jane Austen 珍·奧斯汀|珍·奥斯汀[Zhen1 · Ao4 si1 ting1]
理性主义	li	yi	rationalism
理性知识	li	shi	rational knowledge
理性认识	li	shi	cognition; rational knowledge
理想主义	li	yi	idealism
理想化	li	hua	to idealize
理想国	li	guo	Plato's "The Republic" (c. 380 BC)
理所应当	li	dang	it's only right and proper; it goes without saying
理所当然	li	ran	as it should be by rights (idiom); proper and to be expected as a matter of course; inevitable and right
理查德	li	de	Richard (name)
理查森	li	sen	Richardson (name)
理气化痰	li	tan	(TCM) to rectify 氣|气[qi4] and transform phlegm
理疗师	li	shi	physiotherapist
理监事	li	shi	member of a board of directors
理直气壮	li	zhuang	in the right and self-confident (idiom); bold and confident with justice on one's side; to have the courage of one's convictions; just and forceful
理神论	li	lun	deism, theological theory of God who does not interfere in the Universe
理科学士	li	shi	Bachelor of Science B.Sc.
理解力	li	li	ability to grasp ideas; understanding
理论基础	li	chu	theoretical foundation
理论家	li	jia	theorist; theoretician
理论贡献	li	xian	theoretical contribution
理财学	li	xue	financial management (as a field of study)
理货员	li	yuan	shop assistant; warehouse assistant
理雅各	li	ge	James Legge (1815-1897), Scottish Protestant missionary in Qing China and translator of the Chinese classics into English
琉特琴	liu	qin	(loanword) lute
琉球国	liu	guo	Ryūkyū kingdom 1429-1879 (on modern Okinawa)
琉球歌鸲	liu	qu	(bird species of China) Ryukyu robin (Larvivora komadori)
琉球海	liu	hai	Ryūkyū Sea; refers to the Ryūkyū Islands 琉球群島|琉球群岛[Liu2 qiu2 Qun2 dao3] stretching from Japan to Taiwan
琉球王国	liu	guo	Ryūkyū kingdom 1429-1879 (on modern Okinawa)
琉球群岛	liu	dao	Ryukyu Islands; Okinawa 沖繩|冲绳[Chong1 sheng2] and other islands of modern Japan
琉球角鸮	liu	xiao	(bird species of China) Ryukyu scops owl (Otus elegans)
琉璃塔	liu	ta	glazed pagoda
琉璃庙	liu	miao	Liulimiao town in Beijing municipality
琉璃瓦	liu	wa	glazed roof tile
琉璃苣	liu	ju	borage (Borago officinalis)
琉璃蓝鹟	liu	weng	(bird species of China) Zappey's flycatcher (Cyanoptila cumatilis)
琐罗亚斯德	suo	de	Zoroaster, Zarathustra or Zarathushtra (c. 600 BC), Persian prophet and founder of Zoroastrianism
琐罗亚斯德教	suo	jiao	Zoroastrianism
琐罗亚斯特	suo	te	see 瑣羅亞斯德|琐罗亚斯德[Suo3 luo2 ya4 si1 de2]
琳琅满目	lin	mu	(idiom) to be a feast for the eyes; to be a cornucopia of delights; to be diverse and abundant
琴剑飘零	qin	ling	floating between zither and sword (idiom); fig. wandering aimlessly with no tenured position
琴斯托霍瓦	qin	wa	Częstochowa (city in Poland)
琴棋书画	qin	hua	(idiom) the four arts of the Chinese scholar (guqin, Go, calligraphy and painting); (by extension) the accomplishments of a well-educated person
琴瑟不调	qin	tiao	out of tune; marital discord, cf qin and se 琴瑟, two string instruments as symbol of marital harmony
琴瑟和鸣	qin	ming	in perfect harmony; in sync; lit. qin and se sing in harmony
琴通宁	qin	ning	(Tw) gin and tonic
琴通尼	qin	ni	(Tw) gin and tonic
琵嘴鸭	pi	ya	(bird species of China) northern shoveler (Spatula clypeata)
琵琶行	pi	xing	Song of the Pipa Player, long poem by Tang poet Bai Juyi 白居易[Bai2 Ju1 yi4]
琵琶骨	pi	gu	(old) scapula
琵琶鱼	pi	yu	anglerfish
琼中县	qiong	xian	Qiongzhong Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
琼中黎族苗族自治县	qiong	xian	Qiongzhong Li and Miao autonomous county, Hainan
琼山区	qiong	qu	Qiongshan, a district of Haikou City 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4], Hainan
琼州海峡	qiong	xia	Qiongzhou Strait (between Hainan Island and mainland China)
琼斯顿	qiong	dun	Johnston (name)
琼楼玉宇	qiong	yu	bejeweled jade palace (idiom); sumptuous dwelling
琼浆玉液	qiong	ye	bejeweled nectar (idiom); ambrosia of the immortals; superb liquor; top quality wine
琼海市	qiong	shi	Qionghai City, Hainan
琼结县	qiong	xian	Qonggyai, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
瑕不掩瑜	xia	yu	lit. a blemish does not obscure jade's luster; the pros outweigh the cons (idiom)
瑙蒙短尾鹛	nao	mei	(bird species of China) Naung Mung scimitar babbler (Napothera naungmungensis)
瑜伽垫	yu	dian	yoga mat
瑜伽宗	yu	zong	see 唯識宗|唯识宗[Wei2 shi2 zong1]
瑜伽行派	yu	pai	see 唯識宗|唯识宗[Wei2 shi2 zong1]
瑜伽裤	yu	ku	yoga pants
瑞丽市	rui	shi	Ruili, a county-level city in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
瑞典人	rui	ren	Swede
瑞典语	rui	yu	Swedish (language)
瑞利准则	rui	ze	Rayleigh criterion (optics)
瑞士人	rui	ren	Swiss (person)
瑞士军刀	rui	dao	Swiss Army knife
瑞士卷	rui	juan	Swiss roll
瑞士法郎	rui	lang	Swiss franc (currency)
瑞安市	rui	shi	Rui'an, a county-level city in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
瑞幸咖啡	rui	fei	Luckin Coffee, chain of coffee shops founded in Beijing in 2017
瑞德西韦	rui	wei	remdesivir (antiviral medication) (loanword)
瑞昌市	rui	shi	Ruichang, a county-level city in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
瑞氏染料	rui	liao	Wright's stain (used in studying blood)
瑞氏染色	rui	se	Wright's stain (used in studying blood)
瑞波币	rui	bi	Ripple (digital currency)
瑞金市	rui	shi	Ruijin, a county-level city in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
瑟瑟发抖	se	dou	to shiver
瑶之圃	yao	pu	jade garden of celestial ruler; paradise
瑶海区	yao	qu	Yaohai, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
瑷珲条约	ai	yue	Treaty of Aigun, 1858 unequal treaty forced on Qing China by Tsarist Russia
璀璨夺目	cui	mu	dazzling (idiom)
璧山区	bi	qu	Bishan, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
瓜地马拉	gua	la	(Tw) Guatemala
瓜娃子	gua	zi	(dialect) fool; a silly
瓜子脸	gua	lian	oval face
瓜州县	gua	xian	Guazhou, a county in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
瓜德罗普	gua	pu	Guadeloupe
瓜拉丁加奴	gua	nu	Kuala Terengganu, capital of Terengganu state, Malaysia
瓜拿纳	gua	na	guarana (Paullinia cupana)
瓜无滚圆人无十全	gua	quan	no gourd is perfectly round, just as no man is perfect (proverb)
瓜熟蒂落	gua	luo	when the melon is ripe, it falls (idiom); problems sort themselves out in the fullness of time
瓜田李下	gua	xia	abbr. for 瓜田不納履，李下不整冠|瓜田不纳履，李下不整冠[gua1 tian2 bu4 na4 lu:3 , li3 xia4 bu4 zheng3 guan1]
瓜皮帽	gua	mao	Chinese skullcap resembling the skin of half a watermelon
瓜达尔	gua	er	Gwadar, free trade port city in Pakistani province of Baluchistan
瓜达尔卡纳尔岛	gua	dao	Guadalcanal, the largest island in Solomon Islands
瓜达尔卡纳尔岛战役	gua	yi	Battle of Guadalcanal (August 1942 – February 1943), a pivotal campaign in the Pacific Theater of World War II
瓜达尔港	gua	gang	Gwadar Port on Arabian Sea in Pakistani province of Baluchistan
瓜达拉哈拉	gua	la	Guadalajara
瓜达拉马	gua	ma	Sierra de Guadarrama (mountain range across Iberia, passing north of Madrid)
瓜达拉马山	gua	shan	Sierra de Guadarrama (mountain range across Iberia, passing north of Madrid)
瓢泼大雨	piao	yu	downpour (idiom)
瓢泼而下	piao	xia	(of rain) to fall heavily
瓣鳃纲	ban	gang	Lamellibranchia; class of bivalves
瓦利斯和富图纳	wa	na	Wallis and Futuna (French island collectivity in the South Pacific)
瓦加杜古	wa	gu	Ouagadougou, capital of Burkina Faso
瓦努阿图	wa	tu	Vanuatu, country in the southwestern Pacific Ocean
瓦勒他	wa	ta	Valletta, capital of Malta (Tw)
瓦哈比教派	wa	pai	Wahhabism (a conservative sect of Islam)
瓦尔基里	wa	li	valkyrie
瓦尔德	wa	de	Vardø (city in Finnmark, Norway)
瓦尔特	wa	te	Walter
瓦尔纳	wa	na	Varna (city in Bulgaria)
瓦尔达克	wa	ke	Wardak (Afghan province)
瓦尔达克省	wa	sheng	Wardak (Afghan province)
瓦德瑟	wa	se	Vadsø (city in Finnmark, Norway)
瓦德西	wa	xi	Waldersee (name); Alfred Graf Von Waldersee (1832-1904), commander-in-chief of the Eight-Nation Alliance 八國聯軍|八国联军[Ba1 guo2 Lian2 jun1]
瓦房店	wa	dian	see 瓦房店市[Wa3 fang2 dian4 Shi4]
瓦房店市	wa	shi	Wafangdian, a county-level city in Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
瓦杜兹	wa	zi	Vaduz, capital of Liechtenstein
瓦楞纸	wa	zhi	corrugated fiberboard; corrugated cardboard
瓦砾堆	wa	dui	pile of rubble; debris
瓦罕走廊	wa	lang	Wakhan Corridor, panhandle in the northeast of Afghanistan sharing a border with China at its eastern end
瓦良格	wa	ge	Varyag, former Soviet aircraft carrier purchased by China and renamed 遼寧號|辽宁号[Liao2 ning2 Hao4]
瓦良格人	wa	ren	Varangian (medieval term for Viking)
瓦莱塔	wa	ta	Valletta, capital of Malta
瓦萨比	wa	bi	(loanword) wasabi
瓦西里	wa	li	(name) Vasily; Vasiliy
瓦西里耶维奇	wa	qi	Vasilievich (name)
瓦解冰泮	wa	pan	complete disintegration
瓦赫基尔河	wa	he	Vakhsh river (upper reaches of Amu Darya)
瓦都兹	wa	zi	Vaduz, capital of Liechtenstein (Tw)
瓦里斯	wa	si	(name) Wallis; John Wallis (1616–1703), English mathematician
瓮中之鳖	weng	bie	lit. like a turtle in a jar; to be trapped (idiom)
瓮中捉鳖	weng	bie	(lit.) to catch a turtle in a jar (idiom); (fig.) to go after easy prey
瓮声瓮气	weng	qi	to speak in a low muffled voice (idiom)
瓮安县	weng	xian	Weng'an, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
瓮棺葬	weng	zang	urn burial
瓯海区	ou	qu	Ouhai, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
瓶塞钻	ping	zuan	corkscrew
瓶装水	ping	shui	bottled water
瓶鼻海豚	ping	tun	bottle-nosed dolphin (Tursiops truncatus)
瓷娃娃	ci	wa	porcelain doll; (fig.) person with osteogenesis imperfecta
甄别考试	zhen	shi	to screen; to grade by examination; screening
甘丹寺	gan	si	Ganden monastery, Tibetan: dGa' ldan rNam rgyal gling, Dagzê county 達孜縣|达孜县[Da2 zi1 xian4], Lhasa, Tibet
甘之如饴	gan	yi	lit. as sweet as syrup (idiom, from Book of Songs); to endure hardship gladly; a glutton for punishment
甘井子	gan	zi	see 甘井子區|甘井子区[Gan1 jing3 zi5 Qu1]
甘井子区	gan	qu	Ganjingzi, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
甘南县	gan	xian	Gannan, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
甘南州	gan	zhou	see 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
甘南藏族自治州	gan	zhou	Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
甘味剂	gan	ji	sweetener
甘味料	gan	liao	sweetener
甘孜县	gan	xian	Garzê, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
甘孜州	gan	zhou	see 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
甘孜藏族自治州	gan	zhou	Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
甘州区	gan	qu	Ganzhou, a district of Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
甘巴里	gan	li	Ibrahim Gambari (1944–), Nigerian diplomat and academic
甘德县	gan	xian	Gadê, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
甘心情愿	gan	yuan	willingly and gladly (idiom)
甘托克	gan	ke	Gantok, capital of Sikkim, India
甘拜下风	gan	feng	to step down gracefully (humble expression); to concede defeat; to play second fiddle
甘比亚	gan	ya	Gambia (Tw)
甘氨酸	gan	suan	glycine (Gly), an amino acid
甘油三脂	gan	zhi	triglyceride
甘油三酯	gan	zhi	triglyceride
甘油栓剂	gan	ji	glycerine suppository
甘油醛	gan	quan	glyceraldehyde (CH2O)3
甘泉县	gan	xian	Ganquan, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
甘洛县	gan	xian	Ganluo, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
甘糖醇	gan	chun	mannitol C6H14O6, a sugar alcohol
甘纳许	gan	xu	(loanword) ganache
甘纳豆	gan	dou	amanattō, traditional Japanese sweets made from azuki or other beans
甘肃柳莺	gan	ying	(bird species of China) Gansu leaf warbler (Phylloscopus kansuensis)
甘肃省	gan	sheng	Gansu Province, capital Lanzhou 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 甘[Gan1] or 隴|陇[Long3])
甘蓝型油菜	gan	cai	oilseed rape (Brassica napus)
甘蓝菜	gan	cai	cabbage
甘蔗渣	gan	zha	bagasse
甘言蜜语	gan	yu	see 甜言蜜語|甜言蜜语[tian2 yan2 mi4 yu3]
甘谷县	gan	xian	Gangu, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
甘迺迪	gan	di	Kennedy (name) (Tw)
甘露糖醇	gan	chun	mannitol C6H14O6, a sugar alcohol
甘露醇	gan	chun	mannitol C6H14O6, a sugar alcohol
甚嚣尘上	shen	shang	clamor raises the dust (idiom); a tremendous clamor; to raise a tremendous stink
甚感诧异	shen	yi	amazed; astonished; deeply troubled
甚而至于	shen	yu	even; so much so that
甚至于	shen	yu	so much (that); even (to the extent that)
甚高频	shen	pin	very high frequency (VHF)
甜不辣	tian	la	deep-fried fish cake popular in Taiwan (loanword from Japanese "tempura")
甜味剂	tian	ji	sweetener (food additive)
甜得发腻	tian	ni	lovey-dovey; cloying; sugary
甜津津	tian	jin	sweet and delicious
甜甜圈	tian	quan	doughnut
甜菊糖	tian	tang	stevioside
甜菊糖苷	tian	gan	stevioside
甜菊苷	tian	gan	stevioside
甜蜜素	tian	su	sodium cyclamate
甜蜜蜜	tian	mi	very sweet
甜言美语	tian	yu	see 甜言蜜語|甜言蜜语[tian2 yan2 mi4 yu3]
甜言蜜语	tian	yu	(idiom) sweet words; sweet talk; cajolery
甜酒酿	tian	niang	fermented rice
甜酸肉	tian	rou	sweet and sour pork
甜酸苦辣	tian	la	see 酸甜苦辣[suan1 tian2 ku3 la4]
甜高粱	tian	liang	sweet sorghum
生不逢时	sheng	shi	born at the wrong time (idiom); unlucky (esp. to complain about one's fate); born under an unlucky star; ahead of his time
生于忧患死于安乐	sheng	le	to thrive in calamity and perish in soft living (idiom); life springs from sorrow and calamity, death comes from ease and pleasure
生产企业	sheng	ye	manufacturer
生产关系	sheng	xi	relations between levels of production; socio-economic relations
生产力	sheng	li	production capability; productive force; productivity
生产劳动	sheng	dong	productive labor
生产单位	sheng	wei	production unit
生产反应堆	sheng	dui	production reactor
生产总值	sheng	zhi	gross domestic production (GDP); total output value
生产成本	sheng	ben	production costs
生产率	sheng	lv	productivity; efficiency of production
生产线	sheng	xian	assembly line; production line
生产者	sheng	zhe	producer (of goods, commodities or farm produce etc); manufacturer; (biology) autotroph
生产能力	sheng	li	manufacturing ability; production capacity
生产设施	sheng	shi	production facility
生产资料	sheng	liao	means of production
生产队	sheng	dui	production team
生儿育女	sheng	nv	to bear and raise children
生冷字	sheng	zi	obscure or archaic character
生前预嘱	sheng	zhu	living will
生力军	sheng	jun	fresh troops; (fig.) lifeblood; new force
生力面	sheng	mian	instant noodles (old)
生化学	sheng	xue	biochemistry
生化武器	sheng	qi	biological weapon
生化需氧量	sheng	liang	(environmental science) biochemical oxygen demand; BOD
生卒年	sheng	nian	dates of birth and death (of historical figure)
生卒年月	sheng	yue	dates of birth and death (of historical figure)
生发剂	sheng	ji	hair restorer; hair regrowth tonic
生吞活剥	sheng	bo	to swallow whole (idiom); fig. to apply uncritically
生命不息战斗不止	sheng	zhi	while there is life, the fight continues (idiom); to fight to the last
生命体征	sheng	zheng	vital signs
生命力	sheng	li	vitality
生命危险	sheng	xian	risk to one's life
生命吠陀	sheng	tuo	see 阿育吠陀[A1 yu4 fei4 tuo2]
生命周期	sheng	qi	life cycle
生命在于运动	sheng	dong	life is motion (popular saying with many possible interpretations); Physical effort is vital for our bodies to function (Aristotle).; Life derives from physical exercise.
生命多样性	sheng	xing	biodiversity
生命带	sheng	dai	(neologism) (used in road safety campaigns) "life-saving belt", i.e. seat belt; (astrobiology) circumstellar habitable zone
生命征象	sheng	xiang	see 生命體徵|生命体征[sheng1 ming4 ti3 zheng1]
生命科学	sheng	xue	life sciences
生命线	sheng	xian	lifeline
生命迹象	sheng	xiang	see 生命體徵|生命体征[sheng1 ming4 ti3 zheng1]
生啤酒	sheng	jiu	draft beer; unpasteurized beer
生奶油	sheng	you	cream; whipped cream
生姜丝	sheng	si	shredded ginger
生存农业	sheng	ye	subsistence farming; subsistence agriculture
生存环境	sheng	jing	habitat; living environment
生孩子	sheng	zi	to give birth to a baby
生平事迹	sheng	ji	lifetime achievements
生平简介	sheng	jie	biographic sketch
生态位	sheng	wei	ecological niche; (fig.) niche within an ecosystem (esp. in business or technology)
生态友好型	sheng	xing	eco-friendly
生态圈	sheng	quan	ecosphere
生态城市	sheng	shi	sustainable city
生态孤岛	sheng	dao	insularization (as a threat to biodiversity)
生态学	sheng	xue	ecology
生态学家	sheng	jia	ecologist
生态旅游	sheng	you	ecotourism
生态环境	sheng	jing	ecosystem; natural environment
生态环境游	sheng	you	ecotourism
生态系	sheng	xi	(Tw) ecosystem
生态系统	sheng	tong	ecosystem
生态足迹	sheng	ji	ecological footprint
生意兴隆	sheng	long	thriving and prosperous business or trade
生意盎然	sheng	ran	see 生機盎然|生机盎然[sheng1 ji1 ang4 ran2]
生意经	sheng	jing	knack of doing business; business sense
生成树	sheng	shu	spanning tree (in graph theory)
生技医药	sheng	yao	biopharmaceutical; drug produced by biotechnology
生拉活扯	sheng	che	see 生拉硬拽[sheng1 la1 ying4 zhuai4]
生拉硬拽	sheng	zhuai	to drag sb along against his will; to draw a forced analogy
生无可恋	sheng	lian	(Internet slang) nothing left to live for
生日卡	sheng	ka	birthday card
生日快乐	sheng	le	Happy birthday
生日礼物	sheng	wu	birthday gift
生日贺卡	sheng	ka	birthday card
生有权	sheng	quan	birthright
生机勃勃	sheng	bo	(idiom) vibrant; full of vitality
生机盎然	sheng	ran	full of life; exuberant
生杀予夺	sheng	duo	(lit.) to spare or to kill, to give or take away (idiom); (fig.) control over the fate of others
生杀大权	sheng	quan	life-and-death power; ultimate power
生死关头	sheng	tou	the critical moment; life and death crisis
生死存亡	sheng	wang	matter of life and death
生死搭档	sheng	dang	inseparable partner
生死攸关	sheng	guan	matter of life and death
生死有命	sheng	ming	life and death are ruled by fate (idiom)
生死肉骨	sheng	gu	lit. the dead returning to life; a miracle (idiom)
生殖力	sheng	li	fertility
生殖器	sheng	qi	reproductive organ; genitals
生殖器官	sheng	guan	reproductive organ
生殖系统	sheng	tong	reproductive system
生殖细胞	sheng	bao	germ cell; reproductive cell
生殖腺	sheng	xian	gonad; reproductive gland
生殖轮	sheng	lun	svadhisthana, the navel or libido chakra, residing in the genitals
生殖隔离	sheng	li	(biology) reproductive isolation
生气勃勃	sheng	bo	(idiom) vibrant; full of vitality
生气盎然	sheng	ran	see 生機盎然|生机盎然[sheng1 yi4 ang4 ran2]
生气蓬勃	sheng	bo	vibrant; full of vitality
生活作风	sheng	feng	behavior; conduct
生活垃圾	sheng	ji	domestic garbage
生活必需品	sheng	pin	life's necessities
生活教育	sheng	yu	(Tw) life skills education; education in practical, emotional, social and moral aspects of daily living
生活方式	sheng	shi	way of life; lifestyle
生活水平	sheng	ping	living standards
生活污水	sheng	shui	domestic wastewater; domestic sewage
生活美学	sheng	xue	appreciation of the finer things in life
生活设施	sheng	shi	living facilities
生活费	sheng	fei	cost of living; living expenses; alimony
生活资料	sheng	liao	consumer goods; means of livelihood; means of subsistence
生活馆	sheng	guan	living museum
生灵涂炭	sheng	tan	people are in a terrible situation (idiom)
生炒热卖	sheng	mai	to sell while it's still hot (idiom); fig. in a great hurry to publish or sell (and no time to improve the product)
生煎包	sheng	bao	pan-fried dumpling
生父母	sheng	mu	biological parents; natural parents
生物专一性	sheng	xing	biospecificity
生物传感器	sheng	qi	biosensor
生物体	sheng	ti	organism
生物分析法	sheng	fa	bioanalytical method
生物制剂	sheng	ji	biological product
生物制品	sheng	pin	biological product
生物剂量仪	sheng	yi	biological dosimeter
生物力学	sheng	xue	biomechanics
生物化学	sheng	xue	biochemistry
生物化学家	sheng	jia	biochemist
生物医学工程	sheng	cheng	biomedical engineering
生物反应器	sheng	qi	bioreactor
生物圈	sheng	quan	biosphere
生物多元化	sheng	hua	biodiversity
生物多样性	sheng	xing	biodiversity
生物大灭绝	sheng	jue	great extinction of species
生物媒介	sheng	jie	biological vector
生物学	sheng	xue	biology
生物学家	sheng	jia	biologist
生物工程	sheng	cheng	bioengineering; genetic engineering
生物工程学	sheng	xue	biotechnology
生物弹药	sheng	yao	biological ammunition
生物性	sheng	xing	biological
生物恐怖主义	sheng	yi	bioterrorism
生物战	sheng	zhan	germ warfare; biological warfare
生物战剂	sheng	ji	biological agent; biological warfare agent
生物技术	sheng	shu	biotechnology; abbr. to 生技
生物晶片	sheng	pian	biochip
生物材料	sheng	liao	bio-materials
生物柴油	sheng	you	biodiesel
生物武器	sheng	qi	biological weapon
生物气体	sheng	ti	bio-gas
生物活化性	sheng	xing	bioactivity
生物测定	sheng	ding	bioassay
生物燃料	sheng	liao	biofuel
生物界	sheng	jie	(biology) the biological world; the realm of living organisms
生物碱	sheng	jian	alkaloid
生物科技	sheng	ji	biotechnology
生物群	sheng	qun	biota
生物能	sheng	neng	bio-energy
生物质	sheng	zhi	biomass
生物质能	sheng	neng	biomass
生物量	sheng	liang	biomass
生物钟	sheng	zhong	biological clock
生物链	sheng	lian	food chain
生物防治	sheng	zhi	biological control
生物降解	sheng	jie	biodegradation
生物高分子	sheng	zi	biopolymers
生理假	sheng	jia	menstrual leave (Tw)
生理学	sheng	xue	physiology
生理学家	sheng	jia	physiologist
生理性	sheng	xing	physiological
生理期	sheng	qi	menstrual period
生理盐水	sheng	shui	saline (medicine)
生生不息	sheng	xi	to grow and multiply without end
生石灰	sheng	hui	calcium oxide CaO; quicklime
生石膏	sheng	gao	gypsum CaSO4·2(H2O); plaster
生离死别	sheng	bie	separated in life and death; to part for ever
生米做成熟饭	sheng	fan	lit. the raw rice is now cooked (idiom); fig. it is done and can't be changed; It's too late to change anything now.; also written 生米煮成熟飯|生米煮成熟饭
生米煮成熟饭	sheng	fan	the rice is cooked; what's done is done; it's too late to change anything now (idiom)
生米熟饭	sheng	fan	abbr. for 生米煮成熟飯|生米煮成熟饭, lit. the raw rice is now cooked (idiom); fig. it is done and can't be changed; It's too late to change anything now.
生粉水	sheng	shui	starch solution (cooking)
生老病死	sheng	si	(lit.) to be born, to grow old, to get sick and to die (idiom); (fig.) the fate of humankind (i.e. mortality)
生聚教训	sheng	xun	to increase the population, amass wealth, and teach the people to be faithful to the cause (in preparation for war, following a defeat)
生肖属相	sheng	xiang	birth year as designated by animal symbols (mouse, ox, tiger etc)
生育率	sheng	lv	birth rate
生育能力	sheng	li	fertility; ability to have children
生花妙笔	sheng	bi	beautiful or talented writing
生荣死哀	sheng	ai	to be respected in life and lamented in death (idiom)
生词本	sheng	ben	vocabulary notebook
生词语	sheng	yu	vocabulary words (in language-learning books); new or unfamiliar words
生财有道	sheng	dao	lit. there are principles behind making money (idiom); fig. to have a knack for good business; knowing how to accumulate wealth; good at feathering one's own nest
生辰八字	sheng	zi	one's birth data for astrological purposes, combined from year, month, day, hour, heavenly trunk and earthly branch
生还者	sheng	zhe	survivor
生酮饮食	sheng	shi	ketogenic diet
生长激素	sheng	su	growth hormone
生长率	sheng	lv	growth rate
生长素	sheng	su	auxin (plant growth hormone)
生闷气	sheng	qi	to seethe; to sulk; to be pissed off (vulgar)
生面团	sheng	tuan	dough
生鱼片	sheng	pian	sashimi
生龙活虎	sheng	hu	lit. lively dragon and animated tiger (idiom); fig. vigorous and lively
用不了	yong	liao	to not use all of; to use less than
用不着	yong	zhao	not need; have no use for
用人经费	yong	fei	personnel expenditure (accountancy)
用兵如神	yong	shen	to lead military operations with extraordinary skill
用尽心机	yong	ji	to tax one's ingenuity
用得上	yong	shang	needed; to come in useful
用得其所	yong	suo	used properly; used for its intended purpose; to put to good use
用得着	yong	zhao	to be able to use; useable; to have a use for; (in a question) to be necessary to
用心良苦	yong	ku	to ponder earnestly; to give a lot of thought to sth
用户创造内容	yong	rong	user-generated content (of a website)
用户名	yong	ming	username; user ID
用户界面	yong	mian	user interface
用户端设备	yong	bei	customer premise equipment; CPE
用户线	yong	xian	subscriber line
用武之地	yong	di	ample scope for abilities; favorable position for the use of one's skills (idiom)
甩包袱	shuai	fu	lit. to fling off a bundle; fig. to abandon one's responsibility for sth; to wash one's hands of the matter
甩开膀子	shuai	zi	to throw off inhibitions; to go all out
甩手掌柜	shuai	gui	lit. arm-flinging shopkeeper; fig. sb who asks others to work but does nothing himself
甩手顿脚	shuai	jiao	to fling one's arms and stamp one's feet (in anger or despair)
甩脸子	shuai	zi	to grimace with displeasure; to pull a long face
甩袖子	shuai	zi	to swing one's sleeve (in anger)
田东县	tian	xian	Tiandong, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
田中角荣	tian	rong	Tanaka Kakuei (1918-1993), Japanese politician, prime minister 1972-1974
田家庵	tian	an	see 田家庵區|田家庵区[Tian2 jia1 an1 Qu1]
田家庵区	tian	qu	Tianjia'an, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
田径赛	tian	sai	track and field competition
田径运动	tian	dong	track and field sports
田忌赛马	tian	ma	Tian Ji races his horses (and accepts one loss in order to ensure two wins) (idiom)
田林县	tian	xian	Tianlin, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
田格本	tian	ben	exercise book for practicing Chinese character handwriting (each page being a grid of blank cells divided into quadrants, like the character 田)
田纳西	tian	xi	Tennessee
田纳西州	tian	zhou	Tennessee
田野调查	tian	cha	field research; fieldwork
田长霖	tian	lin	Chang-lin Tien (1935–2002), Chinese-American professor, chancellor of the University of California, Berkeley (1990–1997)
田间地头	tian	tou	(idiom) farms and fields; the grassroots level of agricultural work
田间管理	tian	li	land management
田阳区	tian	qu	Tianyang, a district of Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
由不得	you	de	cannot help; to be beyond control of
由怜生爱	you	ai	to develop love for sb out of pity for them
由此可见	you	jian	from this, it can be seen that...
由此看来	you	lai	thereby; judging from this
由盛转衰	you	shuai	from prosperity to decline; at its peak before the decline
由表及里	you	li	to proceed from the outside to the inside; to see the essence merely by looking at the superficial appearance
甲之蜜糖乙之砒霜	jia	shuang	one man's meat is another man's poison (idiom)
甲二醇	jia	chun	methylene glycol
甲午战争	jia	zheng	First Sino-Japanese War (1894-95)
甲型球蛋白	jia	bai	alpha globulin; alpha fetoprotein (AFP)
甲型肝炎	jia	yan	hepatitis A
甲基安非他命	jia	ming	methamphetamine
甲基苯丙胺	jia	an	methamphetamine
甲壳动物	jia	wu	crustacean
甲壳类	jia	lei	crustacean
甲壳素	jia	su	chitin
甲壳虫	jia	chong	the Beatles (1960s UK pop group)
甲壳虫类	jia	lei	insects of the order Coleoptera (i.e. beetles)
甲氧基	jia	ji	methoxy (chemistry)
甲氧西林	jia	lin	methicillin (a semisynthetic penicillin) (loanword)
甲氨基	jia	ji	methyalamino group
甲氰菊酯	jia	zhi	fenpropathrin (insecticide)
甲沟炎	jia	yan	paronychia (medicine)
甲状旁腺	jia	xian	(anatomy) parathyroid gland
甲状腺	jia	xian	(anatomy) thyroid gland
甲状腺功能亢进	jia	jin	hyperthyroidism
甲状腺功能减退	jia	tui	hypothyroidism
甲状腺激素	jia	su	thyroid hormone
甲状腺素	jia	su	thyroid hormone; thyroxine (used to treat underactive thyroid)
甲状腺肿	jia	zhong	goiter (enlargement of thyroid gland)
甲状软骨	jia	gu	(anatomy) thyroid cartilage
甲申政变	jia	bian	unsuccessful and bloody Korean palace coup in 1884 by Westernisers against conservatives, crushed by Qing troops
甲硝唑	jia	zuo	metronidazole (antibacterial agent); Flagyl (trade name)
甲硫氨酸	jia	suan	methionine (Met), an essential amino acid
甲磺磷定	jia	ding	pralidoxime mesylate
甲级战犯	jia	fan	a grade A war criminal
甲胺磷	jia	lin	methamidophos (chemistry)
甲虫车	jia	che	Volkswagen Beetle
甲酰胺	jia	an	(chemistry) formamide
甲骨文	jia	wen	oracle script; oracle bone inscriptions (an early form of Chinese script)
甲骨文字	jia	zi	oracle script; oracle bone character (an early form of Chinese script)
申不害	shen	hai	Shen Buhai (385-337 BC), legalist political thinker
申命记	shen	ji	Book of Deuteronomy; Fifth Book of Moses
申扎县	shen	xian	Xainza, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
申报单	shen	dan	declaration form
申根区	shen	qu	the Schengen area, a passport-free zone in Europe
申诉书	shen	shu	written appeal
申请书	shen	shu	application; application form; petition (to higher authorities)
申请人	shen	ren	applicant
申请表	shen	biao	application form
电位器	dian	qi	potentiometer
电位计	dian	ji	potentiometer
电信号	dian	hao	electrical signal
电信局	dian	ju	central office; telecommunications office
电信网路	dian	lu	telecommunications network
电信诈骗	dian	pian	wire fraud
电光朝露	dian	lu	flash of lightning, morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral; impermanent
电光火石	dian	shi	see 電光石火|电光石火[dian4 guang1 shi2 huo3]
电光石火	dian	huo	(idiom) in a flash; fleeting; momentary
电冰柜	dian	gui	freezer
电冰箱	dian	xiang	refrigerator; CL:個|个[ge4]
电击棒	dian	bang	stun baton
电力机车	dian	che	electric locomotive
电功率	dian	lv	electric power (measured in watts)
电动力学	dian	xue	electrodynamics
电动势	dian	shi	electromotive force
电动机	dian	ji	electric motor
电动牙刷	dian	shua	electric toothbrush
电动玩具	dian	ju	battery-powered toy; (Tw) video game; computer game
电动葫芦	dian	lu	electric chain pulley block
电动车	dian	che	electric vehicle (commonly refers to e-bikes, scooters or electric cars)
电化学	dian	xue	electrochemistry
电化教育	dian	yu	multimedia education; abbr. to 電教|电教
电压表	dian	biao	voltmeter
电压计	dian	ji	voltmeter
电吉他	dian	ta	electric guitar
电吹风	dian	feng	hair dryer
电唱头	dian	tou	pickup (of a record player)
电唱机	dian	ji	gramophone; record player
电唱盘	dian	pan	gramophone; record player
电圆锯	dian	ju	circular saw
电子业	dian	ye	electronics industry
电子书	dian	shu	electronic book; e-book; e-book reader
电子云	dian	yun	electron cloud
电子人	dian	ren	cyborg
电子伏	dian	fu	electron volt (unit of energy used in particle physics, approximately 10⁻¹⁹ joules)
电子伏特	dian	te	electronvolt (eV)
电子信箱	dian	xiang	e-mail inbox
电子商务	dian	wu	e-commerce
电子器件	dian	jian	electric equipment
电子学	dian	xue	electronics
电子学系	dian	xi	department of electronics
电子层	dian	ceng	electron shell (in the atom)
电子层数	dian	shu	electron shell number (chemistry)
电子工业	dian	ye	electronics industry
电子工程	dian	cheng	electronic engineering
电子手帐	dian	zhang	electronic organizer; PDA
电子数据交换	dian	huan	electronic exchange of data
电子文件	dian	jian	electronic document
电子显微镜	dian	jing	electron microscope
电子束	dian	shu	beam of electrons
电子榨菜	dian	cai	(slang) entertaining content such as Internet videos and TV shows that people watch while eating
电子游戏	dian	xi	computer and video games
电子烟	dian	yan	e-cigarette; vape
电子版	dian	ban	electronic edition; digital version
电子狗	dian	gou	radar detector (slang)
电子环保亭	dian	ting	electrical junk depot, site for reprocessing of old electrical and electronic equipment
电子琴	dian	qin	electronic keyboard (music)
电子盘	dian	pan	USB flash drive; thumb drive
电子眼	dian	yan	electronic eye; bionic eye; surveillance camera; (esp.) traffic enforcement camera
电子科技大学	dian	xue	University of Electronic Science and Technology of China
电子稳定程序	dian	xu	(automotive) electronic stability program (ESP)
电子空间	dian	jian	cyberspace
电子竞技	dian	ji	video gaming (as a sport); e-sports (abbr. to 電競|电竞[dian4 jing4])
电子管	dian	guan	valve (electronics); vacuum tube
电子网络	dian	luo	electronic network
电子脚镣	dian	liao	ankle monitor; electronic ankle bracelet
电子舞曲	dian	qu	electronic dance music
电子表	dian	biao	electric watch; electronic watch; digital watch
电子表格	dian	ge	(computing) spreadsheet
电子警察	dian	cha	traffic camera; speed camera; closed-circuit TV police surveillance
电子计算机	dian	ji	electronic computer
电子词典	dian	dian	electronic dictionary
电子货币	dian	bi	electronic money
电子邮件	dian	jian	email; CL:封[feng1],份[fen4]
电子邮箱	dian	xiang	email inbox
电容器	dian	qi	capacitor
电导体	dian	ti	conductor of electricity
电导率	dian	lv	electrical conductivity
电弧焊	dian	han	electric arc welding
电影制作	dian	zuo	filmmaking; film production
电影制片	dian	pian	film production (producing)
电影剧本	dian	ben	screenplay; film script
电影奖	dian	jiang	film award
电影机	dian	ji	movie camera
电影演员	dian	yuan	film actor; movie actor; movie actress
电影界	dian	jie	moviedom; the world of movies; film circles
电影票	dian	piao	cinema ticket
电影节	dian	jie	film festival; CL:屆|届[jie4]
电影院	dian	yuan	cinema; movie theater; CL:家[jia1],座[zuo4]
电扶梯	dian	ti	escalator
电抗器	dian	qi	inductor; reactor (in an electrical circuit)
电报局	dian	ju	telegraph office
电报机	dian	ji	telegraph
电晶体	dian	ti	(Tw) transistor
电梯井	dian	jing	elevator shaft
电气化	dian	hua	electrification; to convert to electrical power (esp. for railways, factories or other infrastructure)
电气工程	dian	cheng	electrical engineering
电气石	dian	shi	tourmaline
电流强度	dian	du	current intensity
电流表	dian	biao	ammeter
电源供应器	dian	qi	power supply unit
电源插座	dian	zuo	electric socket; power point
电源线	dian	xian	power cable (of an appliance etc)
电灌站	dian	zhan	electric pumping station in irrigation system
电火花	dian	hua	electric spark
电灯泡	dian	pao	light bulb; (slang) unwanted third guest
电烙铁	dian	tie	electric iron; electric soldering iron
电热壶	dian	hu	electric kettle
电热毯	dian	tan	electric blanket
电照明	dian	ming	electric lighting
电瓶车	dian	che	battery-powered vehicle
电白区	dian	qu	Dianbai, a district of Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
电磁兼容性	dian	xing	electromagnetic compatibility
电磁力	dian	li	electromagnetic force (physics)
电磁噪声	dian	sheng	electromagnetic noise
电磁场	dian	chang	electromagnetic fields
电磁学	dian	xue	electromagnetism
电磁干扰	dian	rao	electromagnetic interference
电磁感应	dian	ying	electromagnetic induction
电磁振荡	dian	dang	electromagnetic oscillation
电磁波	dian	bo	electromagnetic wave
电磁炉	dian	lu	induction cooktop
电磁理论	dian	lun	electromagnetism; electromagnetic theory
电磁相互作用	dian	yong	electromagnetic interaction (between particles); electromagnetic force (physics)
电磁脉冲	dian	chong	electromagnetic pulse (EMP)
电磁铁	dian	tie	electromagnet
电离室	dian	shi	ionization chamber
电离层	dian	ceng	ionosphere
电离辐射	dian	she	ionization radiation; nuclear radiation
电纸书	dian	shu	electronic book reader
电线杆	dian	gan	electric pole; telephone pole; lamppost
电缆塔	dian	ta	a pylon (for electric power line)
电缆接头	dian	tou	cable gland
电缆调制解调器	dian	qi	cable modem
电老虎	dian	hu	electricity hog; electricity guzzler
电脑断层扫描	dian	miao	CAT scan; CT scan
电脑病毒	dian	du	computer virus
电脑绘图	dian	tu	computer graphics
电脑语言	dian	yan	programming language; computer language
电脑软件	dian	jian	computer software
电脑辅助工程	dian	cheng	computer-aided engineering
电脑辅助设计	dian	ji	computer-aided design
电脑辅助设计与绘图	dian	tu	computer-aided design and drawing
电臀舞	dian	wu	twerking, sexually provocative dance involving hip movements while in a low, squatting position
电荷耦合	dian	he	electric charge coupling
电荷耦合器件	dian	jian	charge-coupled device (CCD) (electronics)
电荷量	dian	liang	(physics) charge; quantity of electric charge
电蚊拍	dian	pai	electric mosquito swatter
电蚊香	dian	xiang	electric mosquito repellent
电视剧	dian	ju	TV series; TV drama; CL:部[bu4]
电视台	dian	tai	television station
电视塔	dian	ta	TV tower
电视广播	dian	bo	television broadcast; telecast; videocast
电视机	dian	ji	television set; CL:臺|台[tai2]
电视棒	dian	bang	TV streaming stick
电视秀	dian	xiu	TV show
电视节目	dian	mu	television program
电解液	dian	ye	electrolyte solution
电解电容	dian	rong	electrolytic capacitor
电解质	dian	zhi	electrolyte
电警棍	dian	gun	stun baton
电话亭	dian	ting	telephone booth
电话会	dian	hui	conference call; teleconference
电话会议	dian	yi	conference call; teleconference
电话信号	dian	hao	telephone signal
电话区码	dian	ma	area code; telephone dialing code
电话卡	dian	ka	telephone card
电话本	dian	ben	personal address book
电话机	dian	ji	telephone set
电话簿	dian	bu	telephone directory
电话线	dian	xian	telephone line; telephone wire
电话线路	dian	lu	telephone line
电话网	dian	wang	telephone network
电话网路	dian	lu	telephone network
电话铃声	dian	sheng	(telephone) ring; ringing
电话门	dian	men	"Phone Gate", corruption scandal unearthed through telephone records
电贝斯	dian	si	electric bass (guitar)
电负性	dian	xing	electronegativity
电邮地址	dian	zhi	email address
电量表	dian	biao	charge gauge; battery indicator; power meter
电钢琴	dian	qin	electric piano; digital piano
电阻器	dian	qi	resistor
电颤琴	dian	qin	vibraphone (music)
电风扇	dian	shan	electric fan; CL:架[jia4],臺|台[tai2]
电饭煲	dian	bao	electric rice cooker
电饭锅	dian	guo	electric rice cooker
电马儿	dian	r	(dialect) electric bicycle
电驴子	dian	zi	(dialect) motorcycle
男中音	nan	yin	baritone
男主外女主内	nan	nei	men go out to work and women stay at home (idiom)
男主角	nan	jue	male lead; male protagonist
男人不坏女人不爱	nan	ai	women love bad guys
男人婆	nan	po	tomboy
男人家	nan	jia	a man (rather than a woman)
男人膝下有黄金	nan	jin	lit. the man has gold under his knees; fig. a man who does not easily kneel in front of others (owing to pride or moral integrity)
男低音	nan	yin	(music) bass voice
男修道院长	nan	zhang	abbot
男傧相	nan	xiang	best man (in a marriage)
男儿有泪不轻弹	nan	tan	real men do not easily cry (idiom)
男友力	nan	li	(coll.) attractiveness (as a potential boyfriend); degree to which one is "boyfriend material"
男同胞	nan	bao	man; male; male compatriot
男基尼	nan	ni	mankini (loanword)
男女关系	nan	xi	man-woman connection; intimate relationship
男女合校	nan	xiao	see 男女同校[nan2 nu:3 tong2 xiao4]
男女同校	nan	xiao	coeducation
男女平等	nan	deng	equality of the sexes
男女授受不亲	nan	qin	men and women should not touch hands when they give or receive things (citation, from Mencius)
男女老少	nan	shao	men, women, young and old; all kinds of people; people of all ages
男女老幼	nan	you	men, women, young and old; everybody
男婚女嫁	nan	jia	to celebrate a wedding
男子单打	nan	da	men's singles (in tennis etc)
男子气	nan	qi	manly; masculine
男子气概	nan	gai	masculinity; manliness
男子汉	nan	han	man (i.e. manly, masculine)
男子汉大丈夫	nan	fu	(coll.) he-man
男子篮球	nan	qiu	men's basketball
男孩乐队	nan	dui	boy band (type of pop group)
男孩儿	nan	r	erhua form of 男孩[nan2 hai2]
男孩子	nan	zi	boy
男尊女卑	nan	bei	to regard men as superior to women (idiom)
男左女右	nan	you	the left is for males, the right is for females (traditional saying)
男性主义	nan	yi	masculism
男性凝视	nan	shi	male gaze
男性化	nan	hua	to masculinize; masculinization
男性厌恶	nan	wu	misandry
男性贬抑	nan	yi	misandry
男才女貌	nan	mao	talented man and beautiful woman; ideal couple
男扮女装	nan	zhuang	(of a man) to dress as a woman (idiom)
男朋友	nan	you	boyfriend
男欢女爱	nan	ai	passionate love (idiom)
男管家	nan	jia	butler; majordomo; housekeeper
男高音	nan	yin	tenor (singing voice); a tenor
画十字	hua	zi	to make the sign of the cross; to make a cross (on paper)
画地为牢	hua	lao	lit. to be confined within a circle drawn on the ground (idiom); fig. to confine oneself to a restricted range of activities
画地为狱	hua	yu	see 畫地為牢|画地为牢[hua4 di4 wei2 lao2]
画地自限	hua	xian	lit. to draw a line on the ground to keep within (idiom); fig. to impose restrictions on oneself
画外音	hua	yin	voice-over; background narration
画法几何	hua	he	descriptive geometry (three-dimensional geometry using projections and elevations)
画等号	hua	hao	to equate; to consider (two things) to be equivalent
画荻教子	hua	zi	to write on the sand with reeds while teaching one's son (idiom); mother's admirable dedication to her children's education
画虎不成反类犬	hua	quan	to try to draw a tiger but end up with a likeness of a dog (idiom); to try to do sth overambitious and end up botching it
画虎类犬	hua	quan	to try to draw a tiger but end up with a likeness of a dog (idiom); to try to do sth overambitious and end up botching it
画蛇添足	hua	zu	lit. draw legs on a snake (idiom); fig. to ruin the effect by adding sth superfluous; to overdo it
画饼充饥	hua	ji	lit. to allay one's hunger using a picture of a cake; to feed on illusions (idiom)
画龙点睛	hua	jing	to paint a dragon and dot in the eyes (idiom); fig. to add the vital finishing touch; the crucial point that brings the subject to life; a few words to clinch the point
畅所欲言	chang	yan	lit. fluently saying all one wants (idiom); to preach freely on one's favorite topic; to hold forth to one's heart's content
畅货中心	chang	xin	outlet store (Tw)
畅销书	chang	shu	best-seller; best-selling book; blockbuster
界内球	jie	qiu	ball within bounds (sports); in; fair ball (baseball)
界首市	jie	shi	Jieshou, a county-level city in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
畏畏缩缩	wei	suo	cowering; cringing
畏缩不前	wei	qian	to shrink back in fear (idiom); too cowardly to advance
畏罪潜逃	wei	tao	to flee to escape punishment; to abscond from justice
畏罪自杀	wei	sha	to commit suicide to escape punishment
畏首畏尾	wei	wei	afraid of the head, terrified of the tail (idiom); ever fearful and nervous; afraid of the slightest thing
留一手	liu	shou	to deliberately withhold essential knowledge or skills as strategic insurance (typically to maintain leverage, avoid being replaced, or preserve authority in hierarchical relationships)
留余地	liu	di	to leave room to maneuver; to leave a margin for error
留兰香	liu	xiang	spearmint
留后路	liu	lu	to leave oneself a way out; to provide oneself with a fallback
留坝县	liu	xian	Liuba, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
留声机	liu	ji	gramophone; phonograph
留存收益	liu	yi	retained earnings
留学生	liu	sheng	student studying abroad; returned student; foreign student; international student
留守儿童	liu	tong	"left-behind children", rural children whose parents have to make a living as migrant workers in distant urban areas, but cannot afford to keep the family with them
留尼旺	liu	wang	Réunion (island in Indian Ocean, a French overseas department) (Tw)
留尼汪	liu	wang	Réunion (island in Indian Ocean, a French overseas department)
留尾巴	liu	ba	to leave loose ends; to leave matters unresolved
留心眼儿	liu	r	to be on the alert; to keep one's eyes open
留有余地	liu	di	to leave some leeway; to allow for the unpredictable
留活口	liu	kou	to capture alive a criminal (or enemy etc) for interrogation; (of a perpetrator) to let a witness live
留职停薪	liu	xin	(Tw) leave of absence without pay
留言本	liu	ben	guestbook
留言簿	liu	bu	visitor's book; CL:本[ben3]
留里克	liu	ke	Rurik (c. 830-879), Varangian chieftain of the Rus' people
畜产品	xu	pin	domesticated animal products
畜牧业	xu	ye	animal husbandry; stock raising; livestock raising
略知一二	lve	er	(idiom) to know just a little; to have a rough idea
略知皮毛	lve	mao	slight knowledge of sth; superficial acquaintance with a subject; a smattering
略胜一筹	lve	chou	slightly better; a cut above
略见一斑	lve	ban	lit. to glimpse just one spot (of the leopard) (idiom); fig. to get an inkling of the whole picture
略识之无	lve	wu	semiliterate; only knows words of one syllable; lit. to know only 之[zhi1] and 無|无[wu2]
略迹原情	lve	qing	to overlook past faults (idiom); to forgive and forget
略阳县	lve	xian	Lueyang, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
番木瓜	fan	gua	papaya
番木鳖碱	fan	jian	strychnine (C21H22N2O2)
番泻叶	fan	ye	senna leaf (Folium sennae)
番石榴	fan	liu	guava (fruit)
番禺区	pan	qu	Panyu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
番红花	fan	hua	saffron (Crocus sativus)
番茄汁	fan	zhi	tomato juice
番茄红素	fan	su	Lycopene
番茄酱	fan	jiang	ketchup; tomato sauce
番荔枝	fan	zhi	custard apple; soursop (Annonaceae)
畸形儿	ji	er	deformed child; child with birth defect
畸形秀	ji	xiu	freak show
畸胎瘤	ji	liu	teratoma (medicine)
畿内亚	ji	ya	see 幾內亞|几内亚[Ji3 nei4 ya4]
疏不间亲	shu	qin	(idiom) outsiders should not come between close relatives
疏于防范	shu	fan	to neglect to take precautions; relaxed vigilance
疏勒县	shu	xian	Shule, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
疏勒国	shu	guo	Shule, oasis state in central Asia (near modern Kashgar) at different historical periods
疏忽大意	shu	yi	oversight; negligence; careless
疏忽职守	shu	shou	to neglect one's duties
疏水箪瓢	shu	piao	little water and few utensils; to live a frugal life (idiom)
疏而不漏	shu	lou	loose, but allows no escape (idiom, from Laozi 老子[Lao3 zi3]); the way of Heaven is fair, but the guilty will not escape
疏肝理气	shu	qi	to course the liver and rectify 氣|气[qi4] (TCM)
疏谋少略	shu	lve	(idiom) unable to plan; inept at strategy
疏财仗义	shu	yi	distributing money, fighting for virtue (idiom); fig. generous in helping the needy
疏财重义	shu	yi	distributing money, supporting virtue (idiom); fig. to give generously in a public cause
疏通费	shu	fei	facilitation payment; bribe
疏附县	shu	xian	Shufu, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
疑心病	yi	bing	excessive suspiciousness; (non-clinical) paranoia
疑病症	yi	zheng	hypochondriasis; hypochondria; also written 疑病[yi2 bing4]
疑神疑鬼	yi	gui	to suspect everyone; overly suspicious
疑问代词	yi	ci	interrogative pronoun (誰|谁, 什麼|什么, 哪兒|哪儿 etc)
疑问句	yi	ju	question (grammar); interrogative sentence
疑难杂症	yi	zheng	dubious or hard-to-treat cases (medicine); hard cases
疑难解答	yi	da	trouble shooting; solution to difficulties
疑难问题	yi	ti	knotty problem; intractable difficulty
疗养所	liao	suo	sanitorium; convalescent hospital
疗养院	liao	yuan	sanatorium
疙瘩汤	ge	tang	dough-drop soup (made by dropping small, irregular lumps of dough into the simmering broth)
疟原虫	nve	chong	plasmodium (malaria parasite)
疟疾病	nve	bing	malaria
疣鼻天鹅	you	e	(bird species of China) mute swan (Cygnus olor)
疮痍满目	chuang	mu	see 滿目瘡痍|满目疮痍[man3 mu4 chuang1 yi2]
疯人院	feng	yuan	insane asylum; mental hospital
疯牛病	feng	bing	mad cow disease (bovine spongiform encephalopathy)
疯犹精	feng	jing	(slang) person who is blindly pro-Israel
疯疯癫癫	feng	dian	deranged; erratic
疱疹病毒	pao	du	herpes virus (med.)
疲于奔命	pi	ming	(idiom) terribly busy; up to one's ears in work
疲劳症	pi	zheng	fatigue
疲惫不堪	pi	kan	exhausted; fatigued to the extreme
疾恶如仇	ji	chou	variant of 嫉惡如仇|嫉恶如仇[ji2 e4 ru2 chou2]
疾控中心	ji	xin	Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); abbr. for 疾病預防控製中心|疾病预防控制中心[ji2 bing4 yu4 fang2 kong4 zhi4 zhong1 xin1]
疾风劲草	ji	cao	lit. sturdy grass withstands high winds (idiom); fig. strength of character is revealed in a crisis
疾风知劲草	ji	cao	lit. sturdy grass withstands high winds (idiom); fig. strength of character is revealed in a crisis
疾驰而过	ji	guo	to sweep past; to hurtle past; to swoosh past
病从口入	bing	ru	Illness enters by the mouth (idiom). Mind what you eat!; fig. A loose tongue may cause a lot of trouble.
病从口入祸从口出	bing	chu	Illness enters by the mouth, trouble comes out by the mouth (idiom). A loose tongue may cause a lot of trouble.
病假条	bing	tiao	sick note; medical certificate for sick leave
病入膏肓	bing	huang	lit. the disease has attacked the vitals (idiom); fig. beyond cure; the situation is hopeless
病包儿	bing	r	a person who is always falling ill; chronic invalid
病厌厌	bing	yan	variant of 病懨懨|病恹恹[bing4 yan1 yan1]
病原体	bing	ti	(med.) pathogen
病原菌	bing	jun	a pathogen; a bacterial pathogen
病号服	bing	fu	hospital gown
病因学	bing	xue	pathological science (TCM)
病国殃民	bing	min	to damage the country and cause suffering to the people (idiom)
病态肥胖	bing	pang	morbidly obese (medicine)
病急乱投医	bing	yi	lit. to turn to any doctor one can find when critically ill (idiom); fig. to try anyone or anything in a crisis
病恹恹	bing	yan	looking or feeling sickly; weak and dispirited through illness
病殃殃	bing	yang	looking or feeling sickly
病毒学	bing	xue	virology (study of viruses)
病毒学家	bing	jia	virologist (person who studies viruses)
病毒式营销	bing	xiao	viral marketing; see also 病毒營銷|病毒营销[bing4 du2 ying2 xiao1]
病毒性	bing	xing	viral
病毒性肝炎	bing	yan	viral hepatitis
病毒性营销	bing	xiao	viral marketing; see also 病毒營銷|病毒营销[bing4 du2 ying2 xiao1]
病毒感染	bing	ran	viral infection
病毒科	bing	ke	virus family
病毒营销	bing	xiao	viral marketing
病毒血症	bing	zheng	viremia
病民害国	bing	guo	to damage the people and harm the country (idiom)
病民蛊国	bing	guo	to damage the people and harm the country (idiom)
病理学	bing	xue	pathology
病理学家	bing	jia	pathologist
病病歪歪	bing	wai	sick and weak; feeble and listless
病病殃殃	bing	yang	seriously ill; in fragile health
病秧子	bing	zi	(dialect) sickly person
病耻感	bing	gan	stigma attached to a disease
病虫害	bing	hai	plant diseases and insect pests
病虫害绿色防控	bing	kong	green pest prevention and control; environmentally friendly methods of pest control and prevention
症候群	zheng	qun	(Tw) syndrome
症状性	zheng	xing	symptomatic
痒痒挠	yang	nao	backscratcher (made from bamboo etc)
痛不欲生	tong	sheng	to be so in pain as to not want to live; to be so grieved as to wish one were dead
痛哭流涕	tong	ti	weeping bitter tears
痛定思痛	tong	tong	to think of the pain when the pain is gone (idiom); to ponder about a painful experience
痛心疾首	tong	shou	bitter and hateful (idiom); to grieve and lament (over sth)
痛快淋漓	tong	li	joyous; hearty; spirited
痛性痉挛	tong	luan	(muscle) cramp
痛改前非	tong	fei	completely correcting one's former misdeeds (idiom); to repent past mistakes and turn over a new leaf; a reformed character
痛痛快快	tong	kuai	immediately; without a moment's hesitation; with alacrity
痛砭时弊	tong	bi	to strongly criticize the evils of the day
痛经假	tong	jia	menstrual leave
痞子蔡	pi	cai	Rowdy Cai (1969-), Taiwanese Internet writer
痨病鬼	lao	gui	(derog.) tubercular person; a consumptive
痰盂儿	tan	r	erhua variant of 痰盂[tan2 yu2]
痴人说梦	chi	meng	lunatic ravings; nonsense
痴呆症	chi	zheng	dementia
痴心妄想	chi	xiang	to be carried away by one's wishful thinking (idiom); to labor under a delusion; wishful thinking
瘆得慌	shen	huang	frightening; frightened
瘙痒病	sao	bing	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
瘙痒症	sao	zheng	pruritus; itchy skin
瘦伶仃	shou	ding	emaciated; scrawny
瘦巴巴	shou	ba	thin; scrawny; emaciated
瘦死的骆驼比马大	shou	da	lit. even a scrawny camel is bigger than a horse (idiom); fig. even after suffering a loss, a rich person is still better off than ordinary people; a cultured person may come down in the world, but he is still superior to the common people
瘦肉精	shou	jing	leanness-enhancing agent (for livestock)
瘦骨伶仃	shou	ding	(idiom) emaciated; scrawny
瘦骨嶙峋	shou	xun	skinny; emaciated (idiom)
瘦骨棱棱	shou	leng	bony; skinny
瘪螺痧	bie	sha	cholera (with dehydration)
瘾君子	yin	zi	addict (esp. a heavy smoker or drug addict, often jocular or disparaging)
瘾头儿	yin	r	erhua variant of 癮頭|瘾头[yin3 tou2]
癌前期	ai	qi	precancerous stage
癌细胞	ai	bao	cancer cell
癞皮狗	lai	gou	mangy dog; (fig.) loathsome person
癞皮病	lai	bing	pellagra; scabies
癞蛤蟆	lai	ma	toad
癞蛤蟆想吃天鹅肉	lai	rou	lit. the toad wants to eat swan meat (idiom); fig. to try to punch above one's weight
癫痫发作	dian	zuo	epileptic seizure
登出来	deng	lai	to publish; to appear (in print)
登台表演	deng	yan	to go on stage
登嘉楼	deng	lou	Terengganu, state of Malaysia
登堂入室	deng	shi	(lit.) from the main room, enter the inner chamber (idiom); (fig.) to go to the next level; to attain a higher level
登大宝	deng	bao	to ascend to the throne
登封市	deng	shi	Dengfeng, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
登山家	deng	jia	mountaineer
登山扣	deng	kou	carabiner
登山杖	deng	zhang	trekking pole
登山车	deng	che	mountain bike (Tw)
登峰造极	deng	ji	to reach great heights (in technical skills or scholastic achievements)
登广告	deng	gao	to advertise
登徒子	deng	zi	Master Dengtu, a famous historical lecherous character; lecher; skirt-chaser
登机入口	deng	kou	boarding gate
登机口	deng	kou	departure gate (aviation)
登机廊桥	deng	qiao	air bridge; aircraft boarding bridge
登机手续	deng	xu	(airport) check-in; boarding formalities
登机手续柜台	deng	tai	check-in counter
登机桥	deng	qiao	boarding gate (at airport); aircraft boarding bridge
登机楼	deng	lou	airport terminal
登机牌	deng	pai	boarding pass
登机证	deng	zheng	(HK, Tw) boarding pass
登机门	deng	men	boarding gate
登记名	deng	ming	to register one's name; account name (on a computer)
登记员	deng	yuan	registrar
登记用户	deng	hu	registered user
登记表	deng	biao	registration form
登陆月球	deng	qiu	to land on the moon
登陆舰	deng	jian	landing craft
登革热	deng	re	dengue fever; Singapore hemorrhagic fever
登革疫苗	deng	miao	dengue vaccine
登革病毒	deng	du	dengue virus
登高一呼	deng	hu	to make a clarion call; to make a public appeal
登高望远	deng	yuan	to stand tall and see far (idiom); taking the long and broad view; acute foresight
白三烯	bai	xi	leukotriene (biochemistry)
白乳胶	bai	jiao	white glue
白云区	bai	qu	Baiyun, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong; Baiyun, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
白云岩	bai	yan	dolomite (geology)
白云机场	bai	chang	Baiyun Airport (Guangzhou)
白云母	bai	mu	muscovite; white mica
白云石	bai	shi	dolomite
白云苍狗	bai	gou	lit. a white cloud transforms into what looks like a gray dog (idiom); fig. the unpredictable changeability of the world
白云鄂博	bai	bo	see 白雲鄂博礦區|白云鄂博矿区[Bai2 yun2 e4 bo2 Kuang4 qu1]
白云鄂博矿区	bai	qu	Bayan Obo Mining District, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
白令海	bai	hai	Bering Sea
白令海峡	bai	xia	the Bering Strait (between Siberia and Alaska)
白俄罗斯	bai	si	Belarus
白俄罗斯人	bai	ren	Byelorussian (person)
白僵蚕	bai	can	the larva of silkworm with batrytis
白兀鹫	bai	jiu	(bird species of China) Egyptian vulture (Neophron percnopterus)
白先勇	bai	yong	Bai Xianyong (1937-), Chinese-Taiwanese-US novelist of Hui descent
白兰地	bai	di	(loanword) brandy
白兰瓜	bai	gua	honeydew melon
白内障	bai	zhang	cataract (ophthalmology)
白冠噪鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-crested laughingthrush (Garrulax leucolophus)
白冠攀雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) white-crowned penduline tit (Remiz coronatus)
白冠燕尾	bai	wei	(bird species of China) white-crowned forktail (Enicurus leschenaulti)
白冠长尾雉	bai	zhi	(bird species of China) Reeves's pheasant (Syrmaticus reevesii)
白冰冰	bai	bing	Pai Ping-ping (1955–), Taiwanese singer, actress and television host
白刃战	bai	zhan	hand-to-hand fighting
白切鸡	bai	ji	Cantonese poached chicken, known as "white cut chicken"
白化病	bai	bing	albinism
白化症	bai	zheng	albinism
白发人送黑发人	bai	ren	to see one's child die before oneself
白发苍苍	bai	cang	old and gray-haired
白口铁	bai	tie	white iron
白吃白喝	bai	he	to freeload
白名单	bai	dan	whitelist
白唇鹿	bai	lu	Cervus albirostris (white-lipped deer)
白喉冠鹎	bai	bei	(bird species of China) puff-throated bulbul (Alophoixus pallidus)
白喉噪鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-throated laughingthrush (Pterorhinus albogularis)
白喉姬鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) white-gorgeted flycatcher (Anthipes monileger)
白喉扇尾鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) white-throated fantail (Rhipidura albicollis)
白喉斑秧鸡	bai	ji	(bird species of China) slaty-legged crake (Rallina eurizonoides)
白喉杆菌	bai	jun	Klebs-Loeddler bacillus (the diphtheria bacterium)
白喉林莺	bai	ying	(bird species of China) lesser whitethroat (Curruca curruca)
白喉林鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) brown-chested jungle flycatcher (Cyornis brunneatus)
白喉毒素	bai	su	diphtheria toxin
白喉犀鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) Austen's brown hornbill (Anorrhinus austeni)
白喉短翅鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) lesser shortwing (Brachypteryx leucophris)
白喉矶鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) white-throated rock thrush (Monticola gularis)
白喉红尾鸲	bai	qu	(bird species of China) white-throated redstart (Phoenicurus schisticeps)
白喉红臀鹎	bai	bei	(bird species of China) sooty-headed bulbul (Pycnonotus aurigaster)
白喉针尾雨燕	bai	yan	(bird species of China) white-throated needletail (Hirundapus caudacutus)
白嘴端凤头燕鸥	bai	ou	(bird species of China) sandwich tern (Thalasseus sandvicensis)
白噪声	bai	sheng	white noise
白垩世	bai	shi	Cretaceous (geological period 140-65m years ago)
白垩纪	bai	ji	Cretaceous (geological period 140-65m years ago)
白城市	bai	shi	Baicheng, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
白塔区	bai	qu	Baita, a district of Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
白塔寺	bai	si	Baita temple in Lanzhou 蘭州|兰州[Lan2 zhou1]
白大衣高血压	bai	ya	white coat hypertension; white coat syndrome
白大褂	bai	gua	white lab coat (worn by medical staff); (metonym) clinician; medical professional
白头偕老	bai	lao	(idiom) (of a married couple) to live together until old age; to remain lifelong companions
白头到老	bai	lao	see 白頭偕老|白头偕老[bai2 tou2 xie2 lao3]
白头山	bai	shan	Baekdu or Changbai mountains 長白山|长白山, volcanic mountain range between Jilin province and North Korea, prominent in Manchu and Korean mythology
白头海雕	bai	diao	bald eagle (Haliaeetus leucocephalus), the national bird of the United States
白头硬尾鸭	bai	ya	(bird species of China) white-headed duck (Oxyura leucocephala)
白头翁	bai	weng	root of Chinese pulsatilla; Chinese bulbul
白头鵙鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-hooded babbler (Gampsorhynchus rufulus)
白头鹀	bai	wu	(bird species of China) pine bunting (Emberiza leucocephalos)
白头鹎	bai	bei	(bird species of China) light-vented bulbul (Pycnonotus sinensis)
白头鹞	bai	yao	(bird species of China) western marsh harrier (Circus aeruginosus)
白头鹤	bai	he	(bird species of China) hooded crane (Grus monacha)
白头鹰	bai	ying	bald eagle
白宫群英	bai	ying	The West Wing (US TV series)
白富美	bai	mei	"Ms Perfect" (i.e. fair-skinned, rich and beautiful) (Internet slang)
白尾地鸦	bai	ya	(bird species of China) Xinjiang ground jay (Podoces biddulphi)
白尾梢虹雉	bai	zhi	(bird species of China) Sclater's monal (Lophophorus sclateri)
白尾海雕	bai	diao	(bird species of China) white-tailed eagle (Haliaeetus albicilla)
白尾蓝仙鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) white-tailed flycatcher (Leucoptilon concretum)
白尾蓝地鸲	bai	qu	(bird species of China) white-tailed robin (Myiomela leucura)
白尾鹞	bai	yao	(bird species of China) hen harrier (Circus cyaneus)
白尾鹲	bai	meng	(bird species of China) white-tailed tropicbird (Phaethon lepturus)
白居易	bai	yi	Bai Juyi (772-846), Tang dynasty poet
白屈菜	bai	cai	greater celandine
白山宗	bai	zong	Sufi sect of Islam in central Asia
白山市	bai	shi	Baishan, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
白山派	bai	pai	Sufi sect of Islam in central Asia
白崇禧	bai	xi	Bai Chongxi (1893-1966), a leader of Guangxi warlord faction, top Nationalist general, played important role in Chiang Kaishek's campaigns 1926-1949
白巧克力	bai	li	white chocolate
白帝城	bai	cheng	Baidi town in Chongqing 重慶|重庆, north of the Changjiang, an important tourist attraction
白带鱼	bai	yu	largehead hairtail; beltfish; Trichiurus lepturus
白帽子	bai	zi	(cybersecurity) white hat hacker
白干儿	bai	r	alcoholic spirit; strong white rice wine
白平衡	bai	heng	(photography) white balance
白开水	bai	shui	plain boiled water
白手套	bai	tao	white glove; (fig.) (slang) intermediary in negotiations; proxy who acts on behalf of an official in corrupt dealings (to keep the official's involvement secret)
白手起家	bai	jia	(idiom) to build up from nothing; to start from scratch
白扯淡	bai	dan	(coll.) to talk rubbish
白扯蛋	bai	dan	variant of 白扯淡[bai2 che3 dan4]
白报纸	bai	zhi	newsprint
白斑军舰鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) lesser frigatebird (Fregata ariel)
白斑尾柳莺	bai	ying	(bird species of China) Kloss's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus ogilviegranti)
白斑病	bai	bing	vitiligo
白斑症	bai	zheng	vitiligo
白斑翅雪雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) white-winged snowfinch (Montifringilla nivalis)
白斩鸡	bai	ji	Cantonese poached chicken, known as "white cut chicken"
白旄黄钺	bai	yue	white banner and yellow battle-ax (idiom); refers to military expedition
白日做梦	bai	meng	to daydream; to indulge in wishful thinking
白日梦	bai	meng	daydream; reverie
白月光	bai	guang	(slang) the one that got away
白朗县	bai	xian	Bainang, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
白木耳	bai	er	white fungus (Tremella fuciformis); snow fungus
白杨树	bai	shu	white poplar (Populus bonatii)
白板笔	bai	bi	whiteboard marker; dry-erase marker
白枕鹤	bai	he	(bird species of China) white-naped crane (Antigone vipio)
白棉纸	bai	zhi	stencil tissue paper
白榴石	bai	shi	leucite
白毛女	bai	nv	The White Haired Girl (1950), one of the first PRC films
白水县	bai	xian	Baishui, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
白水晶	bai	jing	rock crystal (mineral)
白水江自然保护区	bai	qu	Baishuijiang Nature Reserve, Gansu
白水泥	bai	ni	white cement
白求恩	bai	en	Norman Bethune (1890-1939), Canadian doctor, worked for communists in Spanish civil war and for Mao in Yan'an, where he died of blood poisoning
白沙县	bai	xian	see 白沙黎族自治縣|白沙黎族自治县[Bai2 sha1 Li2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
白沙瓦	bai	wa	Peshawar, city in north Pakistan
白沙黎族自治县	bai	xian	Baisha Lizu autonomous county, Hainan
白河县	bai	xian	Baihe, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
白洋淀	bai	dian	Baiyang Lake in Hebei
白点噪鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-speckled laughingthrush (Ianthocincla bieti)
白炽灯	bai	deng	incandescent lamp
白热化	bai	hua	to turn white-hot; to intensify; to reach a climax
白玄鸥	bai	ou	(bird species of China) white tern (Gygis alba)
白玉县	bai	xian	Baiyü, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
白玉菇	bai	gu	white beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessellatus, cultivated white variety)
白班儿	bai	r	day shift
白琵鹭	bai	lu	(bird species of China) Eurasian spoonbill (Platalea leucorodia)
白璧微瑕	bai	xia	a slight blemish
白璧无瑕	bai	xia	impeccable moral integrity
白癜风	bai	feng	vitiligo
白皮书	bai	shu	white paper (e.g. containing proposals for new legislation); white book
白皮杉醇	bai	chun	piceatannol C14H12O4
白皮松	bai	song	lacebark pine
白皮猪	bai	zhu	(derog.) white person; white pig
白相人	bai	ren	(dialect) rogue; hoodlum
白眉地鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) Siberian thrush (Geokichla sibirica)
白眉姬鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) yellow-rumped flycatcher (Ficedula zanthopygia)
白眉山雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) white-browed tit (Poecile superciliosus)
白眉山鹧鸪	bai	gu	(bird species of China) white-necklaced partridge (Arborophila gingica)
白眉扇尾鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) white-browed fantail (Rhipidura aureola)
白眉拳	bai	quan	Pak Mei or Bak Mei - "White Eyebrow" (Chinese Martial Art)
白眉林鸲	bai	qu	(bird species of China) white-browed bush robin (Tarsiger indicus)
白眉棕啄木鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) white-browed piculet (Sasia ochracea)
白眉歌鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) redwing (Turdus iliacus)
白眉秧鸡	bai	ji	(bird species of China) white-browed crake (Porzana cinerea)
白眉蓝姬鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) ultramarine flycatcher (Ficedula superciliaris)
白眉赤眼	bai	yan	for no reason (idiom)
白眉雀鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-browed fulvetta (Fulvetta vinipectus)
白眉鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) eyebrowed thrush (Turdus obscurus)
白眉鸭	bai	ya	(bird species of China) garganey (Spatula querquedula)
白眉鹀	bai	wu	(bird species of China) Tristram's bunting (Emberiza tristrami)
白眶斑翅鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) spectacled barwing (Actinodura ramsayi)
白眶雀鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) Nepal fulvetta (Alcippe nipalensis)
白眶鸦雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) spectacled parrotbill (Suthora conspicillata)
白眶鹟莺	bai	ying	(bird species of China) white-spectacled warbler (Phylloscopus intermedius)
白眼河燕	bai	yan	(bird species of China) white-eyed river martin (Pseudochelidon sirintarae)
白眼狼	bai	lang	thankless wretch; an ingrate
白眼珠	bai	zhu	white of the eye
白眼珠儿	bai	r	erhua variant of 白眼珠[bai2 yan3 zhu1]
白矮星	bai	xing	white dwarf
白石砬子	bai	zi	national nature reserve at Kuandian 寬甸|宽甸 in Liaoning
白砂糖	bai	tang	white granulated sugar
白碱滩	bai	tan	see 白鹼灘區|白碱滩区[Bai2 jian3 tan1 Qu1]
白碱滩区	bai	qu	Baijiantan, a district of Karamay City 克拉瑪依市|克拉玛依市[Ke4 la1 ma3 yi1 Shi4], Xinjiang
白秋沙鸭	bai	ya	(bird species of China) smew (Mergellus albellus)
白米饭	bai	fan	cooked white rice
白粉病	bai	bing	powdery mildew
白素贞	bai	zhen	(name of a person) Bai Suzhen, from Madame White Snake
白纸黑字	bai	zi	(written) in black and white
白纹伊蚊	bai	wen	Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus)
白线斑蚊	bai	wen	Aedes albopictus (species of mosquito)
白细胞	bai	bao	white blood cell; leukocyte
白罗斯	bai	si	Belarus
白羊座	bai	zuo	Aries (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
白羊朝	bai	chao	Ak Koyunlu or Aq Qoyunlu Turkoman confederation of eastern Iran (c. 1378-c. 1500)
白翅交嘴雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) two-barred crossbill; white-winged crossbill (Loxia leucoptera)
白翅啄木鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) white-winged woodpecker (Dendrocopos leucopterus)
白翅拟蜡嘴雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) white-winged grosbeak (Mycerobas carnipes)
白翅浮鸥	bai	ou	(bird species of China) white-winged tern (Chlidonias leucopterus)
白翅百灵	bai	ling	(bird species of China) white-winged lark (Melanocorypha leucoptera)
白翅蓝鹊	bai	que	(bird species of China) white-winged magpie (Urocissa whiteheadi)
白翎岛	bai	dao	Baengnyeong Island of South Korea, near the Northern Limit Line
白耳奇鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-eared sibia (Heterophasia auricularis)
白肩雕	bai	diao	(bird species of China) eastern imperial eagle (Aquila heliaca)
白肩黑鹮	bai	huan	(bird species of China) white-shouldered ibis (Pseudibis davisoni)
白背兀鹫	bai	jiu	(bird species of China) white-rumped vulture (Gyps bengalensis)
白背啄木鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) white-backed woodpecker (Dendrocopos leucotos)
白背矶鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) common rock thrush (Monticola saxatilis)
白胡椒	bai	jiao	white peppercorn
白胸翡翠	bai	cui	(bird species of China) white-throated kingfisher (Halcyon smyrnensis)
白胸苦恶鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) white-breasted waterhen (Amaurornis phoenicurus)
白胸鸦雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) white-breasted parrotbill (Paradoxornis ruficeps)
白脱牛奶	bai	nai	buttermilk
白脸鹭	bai	lu	(bird species of China) white-faced heron (Egretta novaehollandiae)
白腰叉尾海燕	bai	yan	(bird species of China) Leach's storm petrel (Hydrobates leucorhous)
白腰文鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) white-rumped munia (Lonchura striata)
白腰朱顶雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) common redpoll (Acanthis flammea)
白腰杓鹬	bai	yu	(bird species of China) Eurasian curlew (Numenius arquata)
白腰滨鹬	bai	yu	(bird species of China) white-rumped sandpiper (Calidris fuscicollis)
白腰燕鸥	bai	ou	(bird species of China) Aleutian tern (Onychoprion aleuticus)
白腰草鹬	bai	yu	(bird species of China) green sandpiper (Tringa ochropus)
白腰雪雀	bai	que	(bird species of China) white-rumped snowfinch (Onychostruthus taczanowskii)
白腰鹊鸲	bai	qu	(bird species of China) white-rumped shama (Copsychus malabaricus)
白腹军舰鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) Christmas frigatebird (Fregata andrewsi)
白腹凤鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-bellied erpornis (Erpornis zantholeuca)
白腹姬鹟	bai	weng	(bird species of China) blue-and-white flycatcher (Cyanoptila cyanomelana)
白腹幽鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) spot-throated babbler (Pellorneum albiventre)
白腹毛脚燕	bai	yan	(bird species of China) Siberian house martin (Delichon lagopodum)
白腹海雕	bai	diao	(bird species of China) white-bellied sea eagle (Icthyophaga leucogaster)
白腹短翅鸲	bai	qu	(bird species of China) white-bellied redstart (Luscinia phaenicuroides)
白腹锦鸡	bai	ji	(bird species of China) Lady Amherst's pheasant (Chrysolophus amherstiae)
白腹隼雕	bai	diao	(bird species of China) Bonelli's eagle (Aquila fasciata)
白腹鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) pale thrush (Turdus pallidus)
白腹鹞	bai	yao	(bird species of China) eastern marsh harrier (Circus spilonotus)
白腹鹭	bai	lu	(bird species of China) white-bellied heron (Ardea insignis)
白腹黑啄木鸟	bai	niao	(bird species of China) white-bellied woodpecker (Dryocopus javensis)
白腿小隼	bai	sun	(bird species of China) pied falconet (Microhierax melanoleucos)
白色人种	bai	zhong	the white race
白色体	bai	ti	leucoplast
白色家电	bai	dian	white goods (such as refrigerators and washing machines)
白色恐怖	bai	bu	White Terror
白色情人节	bai	jie	White Day
白色战剂	bai	ji	Agent White
白花花	bai	hua	shining white
白花蛇	bai	she	long-nosed pit viper (agkistrodon acutus)
白花蛇舌草	bai	cao	Hedyotis diffusa
白苋紫茄	bai	qie	white amaranth, purple eggplant (idiom); common foodstuff, unpretentious lifestyle
白茫茫	bai	mang	(of mist, snow, floodwater etc) a vast expanse of whiteness
白莲教	bai	jiao	White Lotus society
白菜价	bai	jia	(coll.) very low price; dirt cheap price
白菜型油菜	bai	cai	a type of rapeseed (Brassica rapa) cultivated for its edible leaves (including varieties like bok choy and choy sum), as well as for oil production and green manure
白菜豆	bai	dou	white kidney beans
白萝卜	bai	bo	daikon; white radish (Raphanus sativus var. longipinnatus)
白虎观	bai	guan	White Tiger Hall, a Han dynasty palace hall in which the famous Virtuous Discussions Held in White Tiger Hall 白虎通德論|白虎通德论 were held under the aegis of Han Emperor Zhang 漢章帝|汉章帝
白蚀症	bai	zheng	vitiligo
白蛇传	bai	zhuan	Tale of the White Snake; Madame White Snake
白蛉热	bai	re	sandfly fever
白蛋白	bai	bai	albumin
白蜡树	bai	shu	Chinese ash (Fraxinus chinensis), whose bark, flowers and leaves are used in TCM
白蜡虫	bai	chong	Chinese white wax bug (Ericerus pela)
白血球	bai	qiu	white blood cell; leukocyte
白血病	bai	bing	leukemia
白行简	bai	jian	Bai Xingjian (c. 776-826), younger brother of Bai Juyi 白居易[Bai2 Ju1 yi4], Tang novelist and poet, author of novel Tale of Courtesan Li Wa 李娃傳|李娃传[Li3 Wa2 Zhuan4]
白衣天使	bai	shi	"angel in white" (laudatory term for a nurse)
白衣战士	bai	shi	warrior in white; medical worker
白衣苍狗	bai	gou	lit. (cloud shapes) changing from a white shirt to a gray dog (idiom); fig. the unpredictable changeability of the world
白话文	bai	wen	writings in the vernacular
白话诗	bai	shi	free verse in the vernacular
白豆蔻	bai	kou	cardamom (Elettaria cardamomum)
白费唇舌	bai	she	to whistle down the wind; to waste one's breath (idiom)
白跑一趟	bai	tang	to go on an errand for nothing; to go on a wild-goose chase
白金汉宫	bai	gong	Buckingham Palace
白金汉郡	bai	jun	Buckinghamshire (English county)
白钨矿	bai	kuang	scheelite
白银书	bai	shu	valuable book decorated with silver, gold and jewels etc, commonly regarded as a disguised form of bribe
白银区	bai	qu	Baiyin, a district of Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
白银市	bai	shi	Baiyin, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
白附片	bai	pian	sliced white aconite (used in TCM)
白雪公主	bai	zhu	Snow White
白雪皑皑	bai	ai	brilliant white snow cover (esp. of distant peaks)
白面书生	bai	sheng	lit. pale-faced scholar (idiom); young and inexperienced person without practical experience; still wet behind the ears
白面儿	bai	r	heroin
白顶溪鸲	bai	qu	(bird species of China) white-capped redstart (Phoenicurus leucocephalus)
白顶玄鸥	bai	ou	(bird species of China) brown noddy (Anous stolidus)
白顶鹀	bai	wu	(bird species of China) white-capped bunting (Emberiza stewarti)
白项凤鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-naped yuhina (Yuhina bakeri)
白领八哥	bai	ge	(bird species of China) collared myna (Acridotheres albocinctus)
白领凤鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-collared yuhina (Parayuhina diademata)
白领翡翠	bai	cui	(bird species of China) collared kingfisher (Todiramphus chloris)
白颈噪鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-necked laughingthrush (Garrulax strepitans)
白颈长尾雉	bai	zhi	(bird species of China) Elliot's pheasant (Syrmaticus ellioti)
白颈鸦	bai	ya	(bird species of China) collared crow (Corvus torquatus)
白颈鸫	bai	dong	(bird species of China) white-collared blackbird (Turdus albocinctus)
白颈鹳	bai	guan	(bird species of China) Asian woolly-necked stork (Ciconia episcopus)
白颊噪鹛	bai	mei	(bird species of China) white-browed laughingthrush (Pterorhinus sannio)
白颊山鹧鸪	bai	gu	(bird species of China) white-cheeked partridge (Arborophila atrogularis)
白颊鹎	bai	bei	(bird species of China) Himalayan bulbul (Pycnonotus leucogenys)
白颊黑雁	bai	yan	(bird species of China) barnacle goose (Branta leucopsis)
白额圆尾鹱	bai	hu	(bird species of China) bonin petrel (Pterodroma hypoleuca)
白额燕鸥	bai	ou	(bird species of China) little tern (Sternula albifrons)
白额雁	bai	yan	(bird species of China) greater white-fronted goose (Anser albifrons)
白额鹱	bai	hu	(bird species of China) streaked shearwater (Calonectris leucomelas)
白首齐眉	bai	mei	(of a couple) to grow old together in mutual respect (idiom)
白香词谱	bai	pu	Anthology of ci poems tunes (1795), edited by Xu Menglan 舒夢蘭|舒梦兰, with 100 accessible poems from Tang through to Qing times
白马寺	bai	si	the Baima or White Horse Temple in Luoyang, one of the earliest Buddhist temples in China
白马王子	bai	zi	a Prince Charming; the man of one's dreams
白马股	bai	gu	gilt-edged securities
白马雪山	bai	shan	Baima Snow Mountains, up to 5430 m., in Dechen or Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
白马鸡	bai	ji	(bird species of China) white eared pheasant (Crossoptilon crossoptilon)
白驹过隙	bai	xi	a white steed flits past a crack (idiom); How time flies!
白骨精	bai	jing	White Bone Spirit (in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]); (fig.) sly and cunning person
白骨顶	bai	ding	coot
白鬼笔	bai	bi	(botany) common stinkhorn (Phallus impudicus)
白鳍豚	bai	tun	see 白鱀豚|白𬶨豚[bai2 ji4 tun2]
白鹈鹕	bai	hu	(bird species of China) great white pelican (Pelecanus onocrotalus)
白鹡鸰	bai	ling	(bird species of China) white wagtail (Motacilla alba)
白鹤拳	bai	quan	Baihequan (Fujian White Crane) martial art form
白鹤梁	bai	liang	White Crane Ridge at Fuling, Sichuan on the Changjiang River, that used to show above the water at dry periods, with famous carvings
白鹤滩	bai	tan	Baihetan, the name of a hydroelectric dam on the Jinsha River 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1] at a point where the river forms a border between Yunnan and Sichuan
白鹭湾湿地公园	bai	yuan	Bailuwan Wetland Park, Chengdu
白麻子	bai	zi	pockmark
白鼻子	bai	zi	cunning or sly person
白鼻心	bai	xin	(Tw) masked palm civet (Paguma larvata)
百万位	bai	wei	the millions place (or column) in the decimal system
百万吨	bai	dun	megaton; million tons
百万富翁	bai	weng	millionaire
百万赫兹	bai	zi	megahertz (physics, electronics)
百乐餐	bai	can	potluck meal
百事可乐	bai	le	Pepsi
百事无成	bai	cheng	to have accomplished nothing (idiom)
百事轻怡	bai	yi	Diet Pepsi; Pepsi Light
百事通	bai	tong	knowledgeable person; know all
百会穴	bai	xue	(TCM) acupuncture point GV-20, located at the top of the head
百依百顺	bai	shun	docile and obedient; all obedience
百儿八十	bai	shi	about a hundred; a hundred or so
百分之	bai	zhi	percent
百分之一百	bai	bai	one hundred percent; totally (effective)
百分之百	bai	bai	a hundred percent; out and out; absolutely
百分位数	bai	shu	percentile (statistics)
百分制	bai	zhi	hundred mark system
百分号	bai	hao	percent sign (%)
百分数	bai	shu	percentage
百分比	bai	bi	percentage
百分点	bai	dian	percentage point
百分率	bai	lv	percentage; percent
百分百	bai	bai	one hundred percent; totally (effective)
百利甜	bai	tian	Baileys Irish Cream (brand of alcoholic drink); see also 百利甜酒[Bai3 li4 Tian2 jiu3]
百利甜酒	bai	jiu	Baileys Irish Cream (brand of alcoholic drink)
百卉千葩	bai	pa	myriad plants and flowers (idiom); rich and colorful
百发百中	bai	zhong	(lit.) one hundred shots, one hundred hits (idiom); (fig.) to shoot with unfailing accuracy; to hit the mark every time
百口莫辩	bai	bian	(idiom) (of sb unfairly accused) to have all one's protestations fall on deaf ears; to be unable to convince sb of one's innocence
百叶窗	bai	chuang	shutter; blind
百叶箱	bai	xiang	Stevenson screen (white box with ventilated sides, housing meteorological instruments); thermometer screen; instrument shelter
百合子	bai	zi	Yuriko, Japanese female given name
百合科	bai	ke	Liliaceae; the lily family
百合花	bai	hua	lily; fig. pure and spotless person; virgin
百合花饰	bai	shi	fleur-de-lis (armorial symbol)
百听不厌	bai	yan	worth hearing a hundred times
百善孝为先	bai	xian	of all virtues filial piety is most important (idiom)
百团大战	bai	zhan	Hundred Regiments offensive of August-December 1940, a large scale offensive against the Japanese by the communists
百威啤酒	bai	jiu	Budweiser beer
百媚千娇	bai	jiao	see 千嬌百媚|千娇百媚[qian1 jiao1 bai3 mei4]
百孔千疮	bai	chuang	heavily damaged; (fig.) full of holes; riddled with problems
百宝箱	bai	xiang	treasure chest
百家乐	bai	le	(loanword) baccarat
百家争鸣	bai	ming	a hundred schools of thought contend (idiom); refers to the classical philosophic schools of the Warring States period 475-221 BC
百家姓	bai	xing	The Book of Family Names, anonymous Song dynasty reading primer listing 438 surnames
百尺竿头	bai	tou	to be at the highest level of enlightenment (Buddhist expression)
百尺竿头更进一步	bai	bu	lit. after climbing a hundred feet up a pole, one should go even further (idiom); fig. even if one has achieved a measure of success, one should strive to do even better
百岁老人	bai	ren	centenarian
百川归海	bai	hai	all things tend in one direction (idiom)
百年不遇	bai	yu	only met with once every hundred years (drought, flood etc)
百年之后	bai	hou	(idiom) (euphemism) after (sb's) death
百年大计	bai	ji	a project of vital and lasting importance
百年好合	bai	he	may you live a long and happy life together (wedding greeting)
百年树人	bai	ren	(idiom) it takes many years to raise children to be upstanding citizens
百废俱兴	bai	xing	all neglected tasks are being undertaken (idiom); work is now underway
百废具兴	bai	xing	variant of 百廢俱興|百废俱兴[bai3 fei4 ju4 xing1]
百废待举	bai	ju	many things waiting to be done (idiom); a thousand things to do
百废待兴	bai	xing	many things waiting to be done (idiom); a thousand things to do
百度币	bai	bi	virtual currency created by Baidu
百度百科	bai	ke	Baidu online encyclopedia
百度知道	bai	dao	Baidu Zhidao, online Q&A forum
百弊丛生	bai	sheng	All the ill effects appear. (idiom)
百思不得其解	bai	jie	see 百思不解[bai3 si1 bu4 jie3]
百思不解	bai	jie	to remain puzzled after pondering over sth a hundred times (idiom); to remain perplexed despite much thought
百思买	bai	mai	Best Buy (retailer)
百思莫解	bai	jie	see 百思不解[bai3 si1 bu4 jie3]
百感交集	bai	ji	all sorts of feelings well up in one's heart
百慕大	bai	da	Bermuda
百慕大三角	bai	jiao	Bermuda Triangle
百慕达	bai	da	Bermuda (Tw)
百战不殆	bai	dai	to come unscathed through a hundred battles (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3]); to win every fight
百战百胜	bai	sheng	to emerge victorious in every battle; to be ever-victorious
百折不回	bai	hui	see 百折不撓|百折不挠[bai3 zhe2 bu4 nao2]
百折不挠	bai	nao	to keep on fighting in spite of all setbacks (idiom); to be undaunted by repeated setbacks; to be indomitable
百无一失	bai	shi	no danger of anything going wrong; no risk at all
百无禁忌	bai	ji	all taboos are off (idiom); anything goes; nothing is taboo
百无聊赖	bai	lai	(idiom) bored to death; bored stiff; overcome with boredom
百日咳	bai	ke	whooping cough; pertussis
百日维新	bai	xin	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
百日菊	bai	ju	(botany) zinnia
百步穿杨	bai	yang	to shoot with great precision (idiom)
百洁布	bai	bu	scouring pad; kitchen sponge
百灵鸟	bai	niao	skylark
百炼成钢	bai	gang	to be tempered into a steel
百炼钢	bai	gang	high-grade well-tempered steel
百眼巨人	bai	ren	hundred-eyed monster
百科事典	bai	dian	encyclopedia
百科全书	bai	shu	encyclopedia; CL:本[ben3],集[ji2]
百科词典	bai	dian	encyclopedic dictionary
百端待举	bai	ju	a thousand things remain to be done (idiom); numerous tasks remain to be undertaken
百米赛跑	bai	pao	100-meter dash
百老汇	bai	hui	Broadway (New York City)
百胜餐饮	bai	yin	Tricon Global Restaurants (incl. Pizza Hut and KFC)
百胜餐饮集团	bai	tuan	Yum! Brands, Inc., American fast food corporation operating Pizza Hut, KFC etc.
百般刁难	bai	nan	(idiom) to put up innumerable obstacles; to create all kinds of difficulties
百般奉承	bai	cheng	to fawn upon sb in every possible way
百般巴结	bai	jie	to flatter someone in a hundred different ways; assiduous fawning (idiom)
百色市	bai	shi	Baise, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
百花奖	bai	jiang	Hundred Flowers Awards, film prize awarded since 1962
百花运动	bai	dong	Hundred Flowers Campaign (PRC, 1956-57), in which Mao called for the taboo on discussing mistakes of the CCP to be lifted
百花齐放	bai	fang	a hundred flowers bloom (idiom); let the arts have free expression
百花齐放百家争鸣	bai	ming	a hundred flowers bloom, a hundred schools of thought contend (idiom); refers to the classical philosophic schools of the Warring States period 475-221 BC, but adopted for Mao's campaign of 1956
百草枯	bai	ku	paraquat
百褶裙	bai	qun	pleated skirt
百计千方	bai	fang	see 千方百計|千方百计[qian1 fang1 bai3 ji4]
百读不厌	bai	yan	to be worth reading a hundred times (idiom)
百货公司	bai	si	department store
百货商店	bai	dian	department store
百货大楼	bai	lou	department store
百货店	bai	dian	bazaar; department store; general store
百足之虫死而不僵	bai	jiang	a centipede dies but never falls down; old institutions die hard
百足虫	bai	chong	centipede
百辞莫辩	bai	bian	see 百口莫辯|百口莫辩[bai3 kou3 mo4 bian4]
百里挑一	bai	yi	one in a hundred; cream of the crop
百里香	bai	xiang	thyme (Thymus vulgaris)
百金花	bai	hua	Centaurium pulchellum var. altaicum
百闻不如一见	bai	jian	seeing once is better than hearing a hundred times (idiom); seeing for oneself is better than hearing from many others; seeing is believing
百页窗	bai	chuang	variant of 百葉窗|百叶窗[bai3 ye4 chuang1]
百香果	bai	guo	passion fruit
皂荚树	zao	shu	Chinese honey locust (Gleditsia sinensis)
的士高	di	gao	(HK) (loanword) disco
的的喀喀湖	di	hu	Lake Titicaca
的确良	di	liang	dacron (loanword)
的里雅斯特	di	te	Trieste, port city in Italy
的黎波里	di	li	Tripoli, capital of Libya; Tripoli, city in north Lebanon
皆大欢喜	jie	xi	As You Like It, comedy by Shakespeare
皇上不急太监急	huang	ji	see 皇帝不急太監急|皇帝不急太监急[huang2 di4 bu4 ji2 tai4 jian4 ji2]
皇上不急急太监	huang	jian	see 皇帝不急太監急|皇帝不急太监急[huang2 di4 bu4 ji2 tai4 jian4 ji2]
皇亲国戚	huang	qi	the emperor relatives (idiom); person with powerful connections
皇冠上的明珠	huang	zhu	the brightest jewel in the crown
皇冠假日酒店	huang	dian	Crowne Plaza (hotel chain)
皇冠出版	huang	ban	Crown publishers, Hong Kong
皇冠出版集团	huang	tuan	Crown publishing group, Hong Kong
皇后区	huang	qu	Queens, one of the five boroughs of New York City
皇后镇	huang	zhen	Queenstown, town in New Zealand
皇天不负苦心人	huang	ren	Heaven will not disappoint the person who tries (idiom). If you try hard, you're bound to succeed eventually.
皇天后土	huang	tu	heaven and earth (idiom)
皇太后	huang	hou	empress dowager
皇太子	huang	zi	crown prince
皇太极	huang	ji	Hong Taiji (1592-1643), eighth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], reigned 1626-1636 as Second Khan of Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1], then founded the Qing dynasty 大清[Da4 Qing1] and reigned 1636-1643 as Emperor; posthumous name 清太宗[Qing1 Tai4 zong1]
皇太极清太宗	huang	zong	Hong Taiji (1592-1643), eighth son of Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4], reigned 1626-1636 as Second Khan of Later Jin dynasty 後金|后金[Hou4 Jin1], then founded the Qing dynasty 大清[Da4 Qing1] and reigned 1636-1643 as Emperor
皇姑区	huang	qu	Huanggu, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
皇家学会	huang	hui	the Royal Society (UK scientific academy)
皇家海军	huang	jun	Royal Navy (UK)
皇家香港警察	huang	cha	Royal Hong Kong Police Force (1969-1997)
皇家马德里	huang	li	Real Madrid (soccer team)
皇家骑警	huang	jing	Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Canadian federal and national police force; Mounties
皇帝不急太监急	huang	ji	lit. the emperor is not worried, but his eunuchs are (idiom); fig. the observers are more anxious than the person involved
皇帝不急急死太监	huang	jian	see 皇帝不急太監急|皇帝不急太监急[huang2 di4 bu4 ji2 tai4 jian4 ji2]
皇帝女儿不愁嫁	huang	jia	lit. the emperor's daughter does not worry about whether she will be able to marry (idiom); fig. highly sought after
皇帝的新衣	huang	yi	the Emperor's new clothes (i.e. naked)
皇帝菜	huang	cai	see 茼蒿[tong2 hao1]
皇带鱼	huang	yu	giant oarfish (Regalecus glesne)
皇族内阁	huang	ge	Qing emergency cabinet set up in May 1911 to confront the Xinhai rebels
皇甫嵩	huang	song	Huangfu Song (-195), later Han general and warlord
皇甫镈	huang	bo	Huangfu Bo (c. 800), Minister during early Tang
皈依者	gui	zhe	a convert
皋兰县	gao	xian	Gaolan, a county in Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
皎皎者易污	jiao	wu	Virtue is easily sullied. (idiom)
皓首苍颜	hao	yan	white hair and gray sunken cheeks (idiom); decrepit old age
皓齿明眸	hao	mou	white teeth and bright eyes (idiom); lovely young woman
皓齿朱唇	hao	chun	white teeth and vermilion lips (idiom); lovely young woman
皖南事变	wan	bian	New Fourth Army Incident of 1940, involving fighting between the Nationalists and Communists
皖系军阀	wan	fa	Anhui faction of Northern Warlords 1911-c.1929
皮下注射	pi	she	hypodermic injection; subcutaneous injection
皮克斯	pi	si	Pixar Animation Studios
皮克林	pi	lin	Pickering (name)
皮划艇	pi	ting	canoes and kayaks; (sports) canoeing and kayaking
皮划艇静水	pi	shui	canoe-kayak flatwater
皮制品	pi	pin	leather goods
皮包公司	pi	si	lit. briefcase company; dummy corporation; shell company
皮包骨头	pi	tou	to be all skin and bones (idiom); also written 皮包骨[pi2 bao1 gu3]
皮卡尔	pi	er	Picard (name)
皮埃尔	pi	er	(name) Pierre
皮塔饼	pi	bing	(loanword) pita bread
皮外伤	pi	shang	superficial wound; a bruise
皮尔森	pi	sen	Pearson (family name as well as various places)
皮层性	pi	xing	cortical
皮层性视损伤	pi	shang	cortical visual impairment (CVI)
皮山县	pi	xian	Pishan, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
皮带传动	pi	dong	a leather drive belt
皮带扣	pi	kou	belt buckle
皮带运输机	pi	ji	belt conveyor
皮开肉绽	pi	zhan	flesh lacerated from corporal punishment (idiom)
皮弗娄牛	pi	niu	beefalo (cross between domestic cattle and bison)
皮影戏	pi	xi	shadow play
皮条客	pi	ke	pimp
皮牙子	pi	zi	(dialect) onion (loanword from Uyghur "piyaz")
皮特凯恩群岛	pi	dao	Pitcairn Islands
皮特拉克	pi	ke	Petrarch; Francesco Petrarca (1304-1374), Italian scholar and lyric poet, famous for sonnets
皮皮虾	pi	xia	mantis shrimp
皮笑肉不笑	pi	xiao	to put on a fake smile (idiom); to smile insincerely
皮纳塔	pi	ta	(loanword) piñata
皮肉之苦	pi	ku	physical pain; lit. skin and flesh suffer
皮肤病	pi	bing	skin disease; skin condition; dermatosis
皮肤癌	pi	ai	skin cancer
皮肤科	pi	ke	dermatology
皮肤肌肉囊	pi	nang	dermo-muscular sac
皮脂腺	pi	xian	sebaceous glands
皮萨饼	pi	bing	pizza (loanword)
皮诺切特	pi	te	General Augusto Pinochet (1915-2006), Chilean dictator
皮质类固醇	pi	chun	corticosteroid
皮质醇	pi	chun	cortisol
皮钦语	pi	yu	pidgin
皮革商	pi	shang	fellmonger; a dealer who works with animal hides and skins
皮鞋匠	pi	jiang	shoemaker
皮鞋油	pi	you	shoe polish
皱叶欧芹	zhou	qin	curled-leaf parsley (Petroselinum crispum)
皱巴巴	zhou	ba	wrinkled; crumpled; unironed
皱眉头	zhou	tou	to scowl; to knit the brows
盂兰盆	yu	pen	see 盂蘭盆會|盂兰盆会[Yu2 lan2 pen2 hui4]
盂兰盆会	yu	hui	Feast of All Souls (fifteenth day of seventh lunar month) (Buddhism)
盂方水方	yu	fang	If the basin is square, the water in it will also be square. (idiom)
盈亏自负	ying	fu	responsible for its profit and losses (of organization); financially autonomous; personal financial responsibility
盈凸月	ying	yue	full moon; waxing gibbous moon
盈江县	ying	xian	Yingjiang, a county in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
盈箱累箧	ying	qie	to fill boxes and baskets to the brim (with treasures)
益寿延年	yi	nian	see 延年益壽|延年益寿[yan2 nian2 yi4 shou4]
益智玩具	yi	ju	educational toy
益母草	yi	cao	motherwort (Leonurus heterophyllus or L. cardiaca)
益生菌	yi	jun	probiotics
益阳市	yi	shi	Yiyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
盎格鲁	ang	lu	Anglo-
盎格鲁撒克逊	ang	xun	Anglo-Saxon (people)
盎格鲁萨克逊	ang	xun	Anglo-Saxon
盎盂相击	ang	ji	(idiom) to quarrel
盎盂相敲	ang	qiao	(idiom) to quarrel
盐亭县	yan	xian	Yanting, a county in Mianyang City 綿陽市|绵阳市[Mian2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
盐坨子	yan	zi	open-air salt heap
盐城市	yan	shi	Yancheng, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
盐埕区	yan	qu	Yancheng district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
盐山县	yan	xian	Yanshan, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
盐成土	yan	tu	halosol (soil taxonomy)
盐池县	yan	xian	Yanchi, a county in Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
盐津县	yan	xian	Yanjin, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
盐湖区	yan	qu	Yanhu, a district of Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
盐湖城	yan	cheng	Salt Lake City, capital of Utah
盐源县	yan	xian	Yanyuan, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
盐田区	yan	qu	Yantian, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
盐皮质类固醇	yan	chun	mineralocorticoid (e.g. aldosterone)
盐碱地	yan	di	saline soil; (fig.) infertile woman
盐碱湿地	yan	di	a saltmarsh
盐肤木	yan	mu	Chinese sumac (Rhus chinensis)
盐边县	yan	xian	Yanbian, a county in Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
盐都区	yan	qu	Yandu, a district of Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
盐酥鸡	yan	ji	Taiwan-style popcorn chicken
盐酸克仑特罗	yan	luo	clenbuterol hydrochloride (diet pill that burns fat); e.g. Spiropent
盐酸盐	yan	yan	chloride; hydrochloride (chemistry)
监利市	jian	shi	Jianli, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
监外执行	jian	xing	to serve (a sentence) outside prison (law)
监守自盗	jian	dao	to embezzle
监察人	jian	ren	supervisor; monitor; watchdog
监察局	jian	ju	inspection office; supervisory office
监察部	jian	bu	Ministry of Supervision (MOS)
监察院	jian	yuan	Control Yuan, a watchdog under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
监护人	jian	ren	guardian
监护权	jian	quan	custody (of a child)
监查员	jian	yuan	supervisor; monitor
监狱长	jian	zhang	prison warden
监理所	jian	suo	inspection and control bureau
监督人	jian	ren	superintendent
监督者	jian	zhe	supervisor
监织造	jian	zao	supervisor of textiles (official post in Ming dynasty)
监视器	jian	qi	security camera; surveillance monitor
监视孔	jian	kong	peephole
监视居住	jian	zhu	(PRC law) residential surveillance; to order sb to stay at their home, or a designated location, under surveillance
监誓人	jian	ren	oath administrator; oath supervisor
盒中袋	he	dai	bag-in-box (packaging)
盒式录音磁带	he	dai	cassette tape
盖世太保	gai	bao	Gestapo
盖亚那	gai	na	Guyana, NE of South America (Tw)
盖台广告	gai	gao	(Tw) slot advertisement; interstitial ad; splash ad
盖尔语	gai	yu	Gaelic (language)
盖州市	gai	shi	Gaizhou, a county-level city in Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
盖帽儿	gai	r	to block a shot (basketball); (dialect) excellent; fantastic
盖斑斗鱼	gai	yu	paradise fish (Macropodus opercularis)
盖棺定论	gai	lun	don't pass judgment on a person's life until the lid is on the coffin (idiom)
盖棺论定	gai	ding	don't pass judgment on a person's life until the lid is on the coffin (idiom)
盖浇饭	gai	fan	rice with meat and vegetables
盖火锅	gai	guo	to block a shot (basketball)
盖然性	gai	xing	probability
盖特纳	gai	na	Geithner (name); Timothy Geithner (1961-), US banker, Treasury Secretary 2009-2013
盖玻片	gai	pian	coverslip
盖茨比	gai	bi	Gatsby
盖革计数器	gai	qi	Geiger counter
盗墓贼	dao	zei	tomb robber; grave robber
盗版党	dao	dang	Pirate Party, political movement whose main goal is to reform copyright law in line with the Internet era
盘古氏	pan	shi	Pangu (creator of the universe in Chinese mythology)
盘尼西林	pan	lin	(loanword) penicillin
盘尾树鹊	pan	que	(bird species of China) racket-tailed treepie (Crypsirina temia)
盘山县	pan	xian	Panshan, a county in Panjin City 盤錦市|盘锦市[Pan2 jin3 Shi4], Liaoning
盘州市	pan	shi	Panzhou, a county-level city in Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
盘旋曲折	pan	zhe	(idiom) (of a road etc) to wind circuitously
盘杠子	pan	zi	to carry out gymnastic tricks on horizontal bar
盘根究底	pan	di	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
盘根错节	pan	jie	twisted roots and intertwined joints (idiom); complicated and very tricky; knotty and deeply-rooted difficulties
盘根问底	pan	di	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
盘锦市	pan	shi	Panjin, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
盘陀路	pan	lu	twisting path; tortuous road
盘龙区	pan	qu	Panlong, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
盘龙卧虎	pan	hu	lit. coiled dragon, crouching tiger (idiom); fig. talented individuals in hiding; concealed talent
盛况空前	sheng	qian	a magnificent and unprecedented event (idiom)
盛大舞会	sheng	hui	grand ball
盛极一时	sheng	shi	all the rage for a time; grand fashion for a limited time
盛气凌人	sheng	ren	overbearing; arrogant bully
盛行率	sheng	lv	prevalence; incidence
盟兄弟	meng	di	sworn brother
盟山誓海	meng	hai	to pledge undying love (idiom); oath of eternal love; to swear by all the Gods
盥洗室	guan	shi	toilet; washroom; bathroom
盥洗盆	guan	pen	washbowl
目下十行	mu	hang	see 一目十行[yi1 mu4 shi2 hang2]
目不交睫	mu	jie	lit. the eyelashes do not come together (idiom); fig. to not sleep a wink
目不忍见	mu	jian	see 目不忍視|目不忍视[mu4 bu4 ren3 shi4]
目不忍视	mu	shi	(lit.) the eye cannot bear to see it (idiom); (fig.) pitiful to behold
目不斜视	mu	shi	not to glance sideways (idiom); to gaze fixedly; to be fully concentrated
目不暇接	mu	jie	lit. too much for the eye to take in (idiom); a feast for the eyes
目不暇给	mu	ji	lit. the eye cannot take it all in (idiom); fig. too many good things to see; a feast for the eyes
目不窥园	mu	yuan	lit. not even peek at the garden; fig. to be absorbed in one's studies (idiom)
目不见睫	mu	jie	lit. the eye cannot see the eyelashes (idiom); fig. unable to see one's own faults; to lack self-awareness; truths too close to home
目不识丁	mu	ding	lit. the eye cannot recognize the letter T (idiom); totally illiterate
目不转睛	mu	jing	unable to take one's eyes off (idiom); to gaze steadily; to stare
目不转瞬	mu	shun	gazing fixedly (idiom)
目中无人	mu	ren	to consider everyone else beneath one (idiom); so arrogant that no-one else matters; condescending; to go about with one's nose in the air
目之所及	mu	ji	what one can see
目光呆滞	mu	zhi	to have a lifeless look in one's eyes (idiom)
目光如豆	mu	dou	short-sighted; limited vision
目光所及	mu	ji	as far as the eye can see
目光短浅	mu	qian	to be shortsighted
目击者	mu	zhe	eyewitness
目力所及	mu	ji	what one can see
目录学	mu	xue	bibliography
目怔口呆	mu	dai	lit. eye startled, mouth struck dumb (idiom); stunned; stupefied
目挑心招	mu	zhao	the eye incites, the heart invites (idiom); flirtatious; making eyes at sb
目无全牛	mu	niu	to see the ox already cut up into joints (idiom); extremely skilled; able to see through the problem at one glance
目无法纪	mu	ji	with no regard for law or discipline (idiom); flouting the law and disregarding all rules; in complete disorder
目无组织	mu	zhi	to pay no heed to the regulations
目标地址	mu	zhi	destination address; target address
目标市场	mu	chang	target market
目标检测	mu	ce	object detection (computer vision)
目的地	mu	di	destination (location)
目眩头昏	mu	hun	to be dizzy and see stars
目眩神迷	mu	mi	to be dazzled and stunned (idiom)
目睁口呆	mu	dai	stunned; dumbstruck
目瞪口呆	mu	dai	(idiom) dumbstruck; stupefied; stunned
目空一切	mu	qie	the eye can see nothing worthwhile all around (idiom); arrogant; condescending; supercilious
目空四海	mu	hai	the eye can see nothing worthwhile all around (idiom); arrogant; condescending; supercilious
目视飞行	mu	xing	(aviation) visual flight; VFR flight
目迷五色	mu	se	the eye is bewildered by five colors (idiom); a dazzling riot of colors
盱眙县	xu	xian	Xuyi, a county in Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
盲人摸象	mang	xiang	blind people touch an elephant (idiom, from Nirvana sutra 大般涅槃經|大般涅盘经[da4 ban1 Nie4 pan2 jing1]); fig. unable to see the big picture; to mistake the part for the whole; unable to see the wood for the trees
盲人门球	mang	qiu	goalball (Paralympic sport)
盲肠炎	mang	yan	appendicitis
盲蜘蛛	mang	zhu	harvestman (arachnid of the order Opiliones)
盲道砖	mang	zhuan	tactile paving tile
直上云霄	zhi	xiao	to soar into the sky
直到现在	zhi	zai	even now; until now; right up to the present
直勾勾	zhi	gou	(of one's gaze) fixed; staring
直升机	zhi	ji	helicopter; CL:架[jia4]
直升机坪	zhi	ping	helipad
直升飞机	zhi	ji	see 直升機|直升机[zhi2 sheng1 ji1]
直发器	zhi	qi	hair straightener
直发板	zhi	ban	see 直髮器|直发器[zhi2 fa4 qi4]
直呼其名	zhi	ming	to address sb directly by name; to address sb by name without using an honorific title (indicating familiarity or overfamiliarity)
直布罗陀	zhi	tuo	Gibraltar
直布罗陀海峡	zhi	xia	Strait of Gibraltar
直情径行	zhi	xing	straightforward and honest in one's actions (idiom)
直愣愣	zhi	leng	staring blankly
直截了当	zhi	dang	direct and plainspoken (idiom); blunt; straightforward
直抒胸臆	zhi	yi	to speak one's mind
直捣黄龙	zhi	long	lit. to directly attack Huanglong; fig. to directly combat the root of a problem
直捷了当	zhi	dang	variant of 直截了當|直截了当[zhi2 jie2 liao3 dang4]
直接了当	zhi	dang	see 直截了當|直截了当[zhi2 jie2 liao3 dang4]
直接宾语	zhi	yu	direct object (grammar)
直接数据	zhi	ju	data-direct (in LAN emulation)
直接税	zhi	shui	direct tax
直接竞争	zhi	zheng	direct competitor; direct competition
直接选举	zhi	ju	direct election
直插式	zhi	shi	(of a connector etc) inline
直撅撅	zhi	jue	completely straight
直播带货	zhi	huo	(neologism c. 2020) (of an Internet influencer etc) to showcase and promote products via live stream, providing links for viewers to make a purchase
直播间	zhi	jian	studio for live streaming; a live stream
直方图	zhi	tu	histogram
直来直去	zhi	qu	going directly (without detour); (fig.) direct; straightforward (in one's manner or speech)
直来直往	zhi	wang	blunt; outspoken
直流电	zhi	dian	direct current
直溜溜	zhi	liu	straight as an arrow
直男癌	zhi	ai	(slang) extreme "straight-man" behavior marked by rigidity, emotional insensitivity, and dismissive or sexist attitudes
直皖战争	zhi	zheng	war of 1920 between Northern Warlords, in which the Zhili faction beat the Anhui faction and took over the Beijing government
直眉瞪眼	zhi	yan	to stare angrily or vacantly
直瞪瞪	zhi	deng	to stare blankly
直立人	zhi	ren	Homo erectus
直系亲属	zhi	shu	next of kin; immediate dependant
直系军阀	zhi	fa	the Zhili faction of the Northern Warlords
直系祖先	zhi	xian	direct ancestor
直系血亲	zhi	qing	direct descendant; blood relative
直线加速器	zhi	qi	linear accelerator
直线性加速器	zhi	qi	linear accelerator
直翅目	zhi	mu	Orthoptera (insect order including grasshoppers, crickets and locusts)
直肠子	zhi	zi	(coll.) forthright person
直肠直肚	zhi	du	frank and outspoken (idiom)
直肠镜	zhi	jing	proctoscope (medicine)
直脚鞋	zhi	xie	shoe that can be worn on either foot
直营店	zhi	dian	company-owned store; store directly operated by the parent company (as opposed to one run by a franchisee, agent or distributor)
直落布兰雅	zhi	ya	Telok Blangah, a place in Singapore
直觉性	zhi	xing	intuitiveness
直角三角形	zhi	xing	right-angled triangle
直角器	zhi	qi	a set square (carpenter's tool)
直角坐标	zhi	biao	rectangular coordinates; Cartesian coordinates
直角尺	zhi	chi	a set square (carpenter's tool)
直言不讳	zhi	hui	to speak bluntly (idiom); not to mince words
直言命题	zhi	ti	categorical proposition (logic)
直言无讳	zhi	hui	see 直言不諱|直言不讳[zhi2 yan2 bu4 hui4]
直言无隐	zhi	yin	see 直言不諱|直言不讳[zhi2 yan2 bu4 hui4]
直译器	zhi	qi	interpreter (computing)
直辖市	zhi	shi	municipality, namely: Beijing 北京, Tianjin 天津, Shanghai 上海 and Chongqing 重慶|重庆, the first level administrative subdivision; province level city; also called directly governed city
直达列车	zhi	che	through train
直达航班	zhi	ban	direct flight
直达车	zhi	che	through train (or bus)
直通火车	zhi	che	through train
直通车	zhi	che	"through train" (refers to the idea of retaining previous legislature after transition to Chinese rule in Hong Kong or Macao)
直道而行	zhi	xing	lit. to go straight (idiom, from Analects); to act with integrity
直饮水	zhi	shui	water that is safe to drink directly
相互作用	xiang	yong	to interact; interaction; interplay
相互保证毁灭	xiang	mie	mutual assured destruction
相互关系	xiang	xi	interrelationship
相互兼容	xiang	rong	mutually compatible
相交数	xiang	shu	intersection number (math.)
相亲相爱	xiang	ai	(idiom) (of siblings, spouses etc) very close to each other; inseparable; devoted to each other
相亲角	xiang	jiao	"matchmaking corner", a gathering in a park for parents who seek marriage partners for their adult children by connecting with other parents who put up posters displaying their unmarried child's details
相似性	xiang	xing	resemblance; similarity
相似词	xiang	ci	synonym
相位差	xiang	cha	phase difference
相体裁衣	xiang	yi	lit. tailor the clothes to fit the body (idiom); fig. act according to real circumstances
相依为命	xiang	ming	mutually dependent for life (idiom); to rely upon one another for survival; interdependent
相关性	xiang	xing	correlation
相城区	xiang	qu	Xiangcheng, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
相夫教子	xiang	zi	to assist one's husband and educate the children (idiom); the traditional roles of a good wife
相安无事	xiang	shi	(idiom) to live together in harmony
相容条件	xiang	jian	conditions for consistency
相对位置	xiang	zhi	relative position
相对分子质量	xiang	liang	(chemistry) relative molecular mass
相对原子质量	xiang	liang	(chemistry) relative atomic mass
相对地址	xiang	zhi	relative address (computing)
相对密度	xiang	du	relative density
相对比较	xiang	jiao	relatively; comparatively
相对湿度	xiang	du	relative humidity
相对而言	xiang	yan	relatively speaking; comparatively speaking
相对论	xiang	lun	(physics) theory of relativity
相对论性	xiang	xing	relativistic (physics)
相对象	xiang	xiang	to meet a possible marriage partner
相山区	xiang	qu	Xiangshan, a district of Huaibei City 淮北市[Huai2 bei3 Shi4], Anhui
相差不多	xiang	duo	not much difference
相平面	xiang	mian	phase plane (math., ordinary differential equations)
相当于	xiang	yu	equivalent to
相形见绌	xiang	chu	to pale by comparison (idiom)
相得益彰	xiang	zhang	to bring out the best in each other (idiom); to complement one another well
相思病	xiang	bing	lovesickness
相手蟹	xiang	xie	crab of family Sesarmidae
相持不下	xiang	xia	at a stalemate; deadlocked; in unrelenting mutual opposition
相提并论	xiang	lun	to discuss two disparate things together (idiom); to mention on equal terms; to place on a par with; (often with negatives: impossible to mention X in the same breath as Y)
相敬如宾	xiang	bin	to treat each other as an honored guest (idiom); mutual respect between husband and wife
相映成趣	xiang	qu	to set each other off nicely
相机而动	xiang	dong	to wait for the opportune moment before taking action (idiom)
相机而行	xiang	xing	to act according to the situation (idiom)
相机行事	xiang	shi	to act as circumstances dictate (idiom)
相比之下	xiang	xia	by comparison
相沿成习	xiang	xi	well established; accepted as a result of long usage
相濡以沫	xiang	mo	(lit.) (of fish) to moisten each other with spittle (when out of the water) (idiom); (fig.) to share meager resources and support each other in times of difficulty
相爱相杀	xiang	sha	to have a love-hate relationship with each other
相碰撞	xiang	zhuang	to collide with one another
相空间	xiang	jian	phase space (math., ordinary differential equations)
相见恨晚	xiang	wan	to regret not having met earlier (idiom); It is nice to meet you finally.; It feels like we have known each other all along.
相视而笑	xiang	xiao	(idiom) to look at each other and smile
相辅相成	xiang	cheng	(idiom) to complement one another
相配人	xiang	ren	match (couple); persons well suited for each other
相配物	xiang	wu	thing that is well suited; pet animal that suits its owner
盼星星盼月亮	pan	liang	to wish for the stars and the moon; to have unreal expectations
盾构机	dun	ji	tunnel boring machine
盾牌座	dun	zuo	Scutum (constellation)
省劲儿	sheng	r	erhua variant of 省勁|省劲[sheng3 jin4]
省吃俭用	sheng	yong	(idiom) to live frugally
省字号	sheng	hao	an apostrophe (punct.)
省油的灯	sheng	deng	sb who is easy to deal with (usu. in the negative, e.g. after 不是[bu4 shi4])
省港澳	sheng	ao	abbr. for the economic region of Guangdong Province (or Guangzhou), Hong Kong and Macao
省略号	sheng	hao	(punctuation) ellipsis
省略符号	sheng	hao	apostrophe
省直管县	sheng	xian	direct management of a county by the province (PRC administrative reform)
省省吧	sheng	ba	(coll.) Don't waste your breath.; Save it!
省辖市	sheng	shi	provincial city
眉山市	mei	shi	Meishan, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
眉开眼笑	mei	xiao	brows raised in delight, eyes laughing (idiom); beaming with joy; all smiles
眉心轮	mei	lun	ājñā or ajna, the brow or third eye chakra 查克拉, residing in the forehead; also written 眉間輪|眉间轮[mei2 jian1 lun2]
眉来眼去	mei	qu	(idiom) to make eyes; to exchange flirting glances with sb
眉毛胡子一把抓	mei	zhua	careless; any-old-how, regardless of the specific task
眉毛钳	mei	qian	tweezers
眉清目秀	mei	xiu	pretty; with delicate features
眉目传情	mei	qing	to make sheep eyes at; to cast amorous glances at
眉眼传情	mei	qing	to give the eye to; to make eyes at
眉间轮	mei	lun	ājñā or ajna, the brow or third eye chakra 查克拉, residing in the forehead
眉飞色舞	mei	wu	smiles of exultation; radiant with delight
看一看	kan	kan	to have a look
看上去	kan	qu	it would appear; it seems (that)
看不中	kan	zhong	not impressed by
看不出	kan	chu	can't discern
看不惯	kan	guan	cannot bear to see; to hate; to dislike
看不懂	kan	dong	unable to make sense of what one is looking at
看不清	kan	qing	not able to see clearly
看不见	kan	jian	cannot see; cannot be seen; invisible
看不起	kan	qi	to look down upon; to despise
看不过	kan	guo	cannot stand by idly and watch; unable to put up with it any longer; see 看不過去|看不过去[kan4 bu5 guo4 qu5]
看不过去	kan	qu	cannot stand by idly and watch; unable to put up with it any longer
看不顺眼	kan	yan	unpleasant to the eye; objectionable
看人下菜碟儿	kan	r	(dialect) to treat sb according to their social status, relationship with them etc (idiom); not to treat everyone equally favorably
看人行事	kan	shi	to treat people according to their rank and one's relationship with them (idiom)
看准机会	kan	hui	to watch for an opportunity; to see one's chance to
看医生	kan	sheng	to visit a doctor
看在眼里	kan	li	to observe; to take it all in
看守所	kan	suo	detention center
看守者	kan	zhe	watchman
看家本事	kan	shi	see 看家本領|看家本领[kan1 jia1 ben3 ling3]
看家本领	kan	ling	(idiom) one's forte
看得中	kan	zhong	to take a liking for; to fancy
看得出	kan	chu	can see; can tell
看得见	kan	jian	to be able to see; can see
看得起	kan	qi	to show respect for; to think highly of
看得过	kan	guo	presentable; passable
看得过儿	kan	r	erhua variant of 看得過|看得过[kan4 de5 guo4]
看情况	kan	kuang	depending on the situation
看样子	kan	zi	it seems; it looks as if
看热闹	kan	nao	to enjoy watching a bustling scene; to go where the crowds are
看着不管	kan	guan	to stand by and pay no heed; to ignore
看着办	kan	ban	to do as one sees fit; to play it by ear (according to the circumstances)
看破红尘	kan	chen	(idiom) to see through the illusions of the material world (often a precursor to becoming a Buddhist monk or nun); to become disillusioned with human society
看笑话	kan	hua	to watch with amusement as sb makes a fool of himself
看花眼	kan	yan	to be dazzled; to not believe one's own eyes
看菜吃饭	kan	fan	(lit.) to eat depending on the dish (idiom); (fig.) to act according to actual circumstances
看菜吃饭量体裁衣	kan	yi	lit. to eat depending on the dish, cut cloth according to the body (idiom); fig. to act according to actual circumstances
看走眼	kan	yan	to make an error of judgment; to be taken in
看起来	kan	lai	seemingly; apparently; looks as if; appears to be; gives the impression that; seems on the face of it to be
看门人	kan	ren	janitor; watchman
看鸟人	kan	ren	a bird-watcher
真主党	zhen	dang	Hezbollah (Lebanon Islamic group)
真人不露相	zhen	xiang	the sage presents as an ordinary person (idiom)
真人版	zhen	ban	real-life version (of some imaginary character)
真人真事	zhen	shi	genuine people and true events
真人秀	zhen	xiu	(TV) reality show
真伪莫辨	zhen	bian	can't judge true or false (idiom); unable to distinguish the genuine from the fake; not to know whether to believe (what one reads in the news)
真值表	zhen	biao	truth table
真假难辨	zhen	bian	hard to distinguish real from imitation
真凭实据	zhen	ju	reliable evidence (idiom); conclusive proof; definitive evidence
真刀真枪	zhen	qiang	(lit.) real swords and spears (idiom); (fig.) very much for real; genuine
真分数	zhen	shu	proper fraction (with numerator < denominator, e.g. five sevenths); see also: improper fraction 假分數|假分数[jia3 fen1 shu4] and mixed number 帶分數|带分数[dai4 fen1 shu4]
真后生动物	zhen	wu	eumetazoa; subkingdom of animals excluding sponges
真否定句	zhen	ju	true negative (TN)
真善美	zhen	mei	truth, goodness and beauty
真声最高音	zhen	yin	(music) the highest note one can sing in a natural (non-falsetto) voice
真姬菇	zhen	gu	beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessulatus)
真子集	zhen	ji	proper subset
真实性	zhen	xing	authenticity; truthfulness; veracity
真实感	zhen	gan	the feeling that sth is genuine; sense of reality; in the flesh
真彩色	zhen	se	true color
真心实意	zhen	yi	(idiom) genuine; sincere; wholehearted
真心话大冒险	zhen	xian	The Moment of Truth (TV show); Truth or Dare (game)
真情实意	zhen	yi	(idiom) sincere feelings; genuine emotions
真才实学	zhen	xue	solid learning; real ability and learning; genuine talent
真是的	zhen	de	Really! (interj. of annoyance or frustration)
真有你的	zhen	de	You're really quite something!; You're just amazing!
真枪实弹	zhen	dan	(idiom) with real guns and live ammunition; (fig.) for real (involving genuine action rather than rehearsal, simulation or theory); (coll.) to have actual sex; to go all the way
真格的	zhen	de	(coll.) serious; real; true
真理报	zhen	bao	Pravda (newspaper)
真理部	zhen	bu	Ministry of Truth, a fictional ministry from George Orwell's novel Nineteen Eighty-Four
真番郡	zhen	jun	Zhenpan commandery (108 BC-c. 300 AD), one of four Han dynasty commanderies in north Korea
真皮层	zhen	ceng	dermis
真相大白	zhen	bai	the whole truth is revealed (idiom); everything becomes clear
真相毕露	zhen	lu	real face fully revealed (idiom); fig. to unmask and expose the whole truth
真知灼见	zhen	jian	penetrating insight
真空泵	zhen	beng	vacuum pump
真空管	zhen	guan	vacuum tube; thermionic valve
真肯定句	zhen	ju	true affirmative (TA)
真菌纲	zhen	gang	Eumycetes (taxonomic class of fungi)
真言宗	zhen	zong	Shingon Buddhism
真金不怕火来烧	zhen	shao	see 真金不怕火煉|真金不怕火炼[zhen1 jin1 bu4 pa4 huo3 lian4]
真金不怕火炼	zhen	lian	True gold fears no fire. (idiom)
真金白银	zhen	yin	real money; cold, hard cash
真面目	zhen	mu	true identity; true colors
真龙天子	zhen	zi	(idiom) (honorific) True Dragon, Son of Heaven; the rightful emperor
眨眼睛	zha	jing	wink
眯眯眼	mi	yan	squinty eyes
眵目糊	chi	hu	(dialect) sleep (dried mucus in the corner of the eye)
眷眷之心	juan	xin	nostalgia; home-sickness; longing for departed beloved
眼不见为净	yan	jing	what remains unseen is deemed to be clean; what the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over (idiom)
眼不见心不烦	yan	fan	what the eye doesn't see, the heart doesn't grieve over (idiom)
眼不转睛	yan	jing	with fixed attention (idiom)
眼中刺	yan	ci	a thorn in one's eye; fig. a thorn in one's flesh
眼中钉	yan	ding	a thorn in one's side
眼中钉肉中刺	yan	ci	a thorn in one's side
眼光短	yan	duan	short-sighted
眼冒金星	yan	xing	to see stars; dazed
眼前一亮	yan	liang	(one's) eyes light up; to be impressed by what one sees
眼力见	yan	jian	(dialect) ability to read situations and respond appropriately
眼力见儿	yan	r	erhua form of 眼力見|眼力见[yan3 li4 jian4]
眼动技术	yan	shu	eye movement technology; eye-tracking technology
眼圈红了	yan	le	to be on the verge of tears
眼尖手快	yan	kuai	see 眼疾手快[yan3 ji2 shou3 kuai4]
眼巴巴	yan	ba	waiting anxiously; impatient
眼干症	yan	zheng	(medicine) xerophthalmia; dry eye syndrome
眼底下	yan	xia	in front of one's eyes; in full view as a panorama; right now
眼底镜	yan	jing	ophthalmoscope; funduscope
眼急手快	yan	kuai	variant of 眼疾手快[yan3 ji2 shou3 kuai4]
眼成穿	yan	chuan	to watch in anticipation (idiom)
眼房水	yan	shui	aqueous humor
眼明手快	yan	kuai	sharp-sighted and deft
眼珠儿	yan	r	eyeball; fig. the apple of one's eye (i.e. favorite person)
眼珠子	yan	zi	eyeball; fig. the apple of one's eye (i.e. favorite person)
眼电图	yan	tu	electrooculograph (EOG)
眼疾手快	yan	kuai	(idiom) quick to notice and react
眼皮子	yan	zi	eyelid
眼皮子底下	yan	xia	right in front of sb's eyes; right under sb's nose; current
眼皮子浅	yan	qian	short-sighted
眼皮底下	yan	xia	in front of one's eyes
眼眨毛	yan	mao	(dialect) eyelashes
眼睁睁	yan	zheng	to stare blankly; to look on helplessly; to look on unfeelingly
眼睛吃冰淇淋	yan	lin	(slang) (Tw) to be checking out the hotties
眼睫毛	yan	mao	eyelashes
眼瞎耳聋	yan	long	to be deaf and blind (idiom)
眼神不好	yan	hao	to have poor eyesight
眼神不济	yan	ji	to have poor eyesight
眼科医生	yan	sheng	ophthalmologist; eye doctor
眼科学	yan	xue	ophthalmology
眼穿肠断	yan	duan	waiting anxiously (idiom)
眼纹噪鹛	yan	mei	(bird species of China) spotted laughingthrush (Ianthocincla ocellata)
眼纹黄山雀	yan	que	(bird species of China) Himalayan black-lored tit (Machlolophus xanthogenys)
眼线液	yan	ye	eyeliner (cosmetics)
眼线笔	yan	bi	eyeliner (cosmetics)
眼花缭乱	yan	luan	to be dazzled
眼药水	yan	shui	eye drops; eyewash
眼虫藻	yan	zao	euglena (biology)
眼见为实	yan	shi	seeing is believing
眼见为实耳听为虚	yan	xu	see 耳聽為虛，眼見為實|耳听为虚，眼见为实[er3 ting1 wei2 xu1 , yan3 jian4 wei2 shi2]
眼见得	yan	de	(dialect) obviously; clearly
眼观六路耳听八方	yan	fang	lit. the eyes watch six roads and the ears listen in all directions; to be observant and alert (idiom)
眼观四处耳听八方	yan	fang	see 眼觀四面，耳聽八方|眼观四面，耳听八方[yan3 guan1 si4 mian4 , er3 ting1 ba1 fang1]
眼观四面耳听八方	yan	fang	lit. the eyes observe all sides and the ears listen in all directions (idiom); fig. to be observant and alert
眼角膜	yan	mo	cornea
眼距宽	yan	kuan	orbital hypertelorism (medicine)
眼过劳	yan	lao	eye strain
眼里容不得沙子	yan	zi	can't bear having grit in one's eye (idiom); unable to put sth objectionable out of one's mind; not prepared to turn a blind eye
眼里揉不得沙子	yan	zi	see 眼裡容不得沙子|眼里容不得沙子[yan3 li3 rong2 bu5 de2 sha1 zi5]
眼镜片	yan	pian	lens (in eyeglasses etc)
眼镜猴	yan	hou	tarsier monkey
眼镜蛇	yan	she	cobra
眼馋肚饱	yan	bao	to have eyes bigger than one's belly (idiom)
眼高手低	yan	di	to have high standards but little ability; to be fastidious but incompetent (idiom)
着三不着两	zhao	liang	scatter-brained; thoughtless
着劲儿	zhuo	r	to put effort into sth; to try really hard
着手成春	zhuo	chun	lit. set out and it becomes spring (idiom); to effect a miracle cure (of medical operation); to bring back the dead; once it starts, everything goes well
着火点	zhao	dian	ignition point (temperature); combustion point
着眼点	zhuo	dian	place of interest; a place one has one's eye on
着着失败	zhao	bai	to fail at every step of the way; Taiwan pr. [zhuo2zhuo2-shi1bai4]
着色书	zhuo	shu	a coloring book
着边儿	zhao	r	erhua variant of 著邊|着边[zhao2 bian1]
着道儿	zhao	r	to be fooled; to be taken in (by a ruse)
着重号	zhuo	hao	Chinese underdot (punct. used for emphasis, sim. to Western italics)
着陆场	zhuo	chang	landing site
着陆点	zhuo	dian	landing site
睁一只眼闭一只眼	zheng	yan	to turn a blind eye
睁一眼闭一眼	zheng	yan	to turn a blind eye
睁只眼闭只眼	zheng	yan	to turn a blind eye
睁眼瞎	zheng	xia	an illiterate; sb who has blurred vision; sb who is willfully blind
睁眼说瞎话	zheng	hua	(idiom) to lie through one's teeth; to talk drivel
睁着眼睛说瞎话	zheng	hua	(idiom) to lie through one's teeth; to talk drivel
睑腺炎	jian	yan	(medicine) stye; hordeolum
睚眦必报	ya	bao	lit. to seek revenge over a dirty look (idiom); fig. small-minded; vindictive
睡午觉	shui	jiao	to have a nap
睡回笼觉	shui	jiao	to go back to sleep (instead of rising up in the morning); to sleep in
睡得着	shui	zhao	to fall asleep; to get to sleep
睡懒觉	shui	jiao	to sleep in
睡梦中	shui	zhong	in one's sleep
睡眠呼吸暂停	shui	ting	sleep apnea
睡眠失调	shui	tiao	sleep disorder
睡眠虫	shui	chong	trypanosome
睡眼惺忪	shui	song	(idiom) sleepy-eyed; still half asleep
睡美人	shui	ren	Sleeping Beauty
睡衣裤	shui	ku	pajamas
睡过头	shui	tou	to oversleep
睢宁县	sui	xian	Suining, a county in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
睢阳区	sui	qu	Suiyang, a district of Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
督察大队	du	dui	censorship brigade (PRC)
督进去	du	qu	(slang) (Tw) to stick "it" in; to thrust inside
睦邻政策	mu	ce	good-neighbor policy
睫毛膏	jie	gao	mascara
睫状体	jie	ti	ciliary body (in the eye, containing the focusing muscles)
睹物思人	du	ren	(idiom) to fondly remember a person on seeing sth one associates with them
睾丸扭转	gao	zhuan	(medicine) testicular torsion
睾丸激素	gao	su	testosterone
睾丸素	gao	su	testosterone
睾丸酮	gao	tong	testosterone
瞄一眼	miao	yan	to shoot a glance at
瞄准具	miao	ju	sighting device; sight (for a firearm etc)
瞌睡虫	ke	chong	mythological insect that makes people doze off; (fig.) drowsiness; (coll.) person who loves sleeping
瞎子摸象	xia	xiang	blind people touch an elephant (idiom, from Nirvana sutra 大般涅槃經|大般涅盘经[da4 ban1 Nie4 pan2 jing1]); fig. unable to see the big picture; to mistake the part for the whole; unable to see the wood for the trees
瞎扯蛋	xia	dan	to talk irresponsibly; to talk nonsense
瞎指挥	xia	hui	to give nonsensical instructions; to issue orders out of ignorance
瞎猫碰上死耗子	xia	zi	a blind cat finds a dead mouse (idiom); blind luck
瞎编乱造	xia	zao	random lies and falsehoods
瞒上欺下	man	xia	to deceive one's superiors and bully one's subordinates (idiom)
瞒不过	man	guo	cannot conceal (a matter) from (sb)
瞒天大谎	man	huang	enormous lie; whopper
瞒天过海	man	hai	to cross the sea by a trick (idiom); to achieve one's aim by underhanded means
瞒心昧己	man	ji	to blot out one's conscience
瞠目以对	cheng	dui	to return only a blank stare; to stare back
瞠目结舌	cheng	she	(idiom) dumbfounded; flabbergasted; stunned
瞧不起	qiao	qi	to look down upon; to hold in contempt
瞧着办	qiao	ban	to do as one sees fit; It's up to you.; Let's wait and see and then decide what to do.
瞪鞋摇滚	deng	gun	shoegaze (music genre)
瞬发中子	shun	zi	prompt neutron
瞬发辐射	shun	she	prompt radiation
瞬息万变	shun	bian	in an instant a myriad changes (idiom); rapid substantial change
瞬息之间	shun	jian	(idiom) in the wink of an eye; in a flash
瞬时辐射	shun	she	prompt radiation
瞬间转移	shun	yi	teleportation
瞭望台	liao	tai	observation platform; lookout platform
瞭望哨	liao	shao	lookout post
瞭望塔	liao	ta	watchtower; observation tower
瞻前顾后	zhan	hou	lit. to look forward and back (idiom); fig. to consider carefully; to weigh the pros and cons; fig. to be overcautious and indecisive
瞻礼日	zhan	ri	the Lord's Day; Sunday
瞿塘峡	qu	xia	Qutang Gorge, 8 km long gorge on the Changjiang or Yangtze in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4], the upper of the Three Gorges 三峽|三峡[San1 Xia2]
瞿秋白	qu	bai	Qu Qiubai (1899-1935), politician, Soviet expert of the Chinese communists at time of Soviet influence, publisher and Russian translator, captured and executed by Guomindang at the time of the Long March
矛头指向	mao	xiang	to target sb or sth (for attack, criticism etc)
矛斑蝗莺	mao	ying	(bird species of China) lanceolated warbler (Locustella lanceolata)
矛纹草鹛	mao	mei	(bird species of China) Chinese babax (Pterorhinus lanceolatus)
矜功不立	jin	li	boasts a lot, but nothing comes of it (idiom)
矢口否认	shi	ren	to deny flatly
知之甚微	zhi	wei	to know very little about
知书达理	zhi	li	educated and well-balanced (idiom)
知了猴	zhi	hou	(coll.) newly-emerged cicada nymph
知人善任	zhi	ren	(idiom) expert at appointing people according to their abilities; to put the right people in the right places
知人善用	zhi	yong	see 知人善任[zhi1 ren2 shan4 ren4]
知人知面不知心	zhi	xin	one may know a person for a long time without understanding his true nature (idiom)
知人者智自知者明	zhi	ming	those who understand others are intelligent, but those who know themselves are truly wise (idiom, from Laozi's 道德經|道德经[Dao4 de2 jing1])
知其不可而为之	zhi	zhi	to keep going resolutely despite knowing the task is impossible (idiom)
知冷知热	zhi	re	to know whether others are cold or hot (idiom); to be very considerate
知名人士	zhi	shi	public figure; celebrity
知名度	zhi	du	reputation; profile; familiarity in the public consciousness
知子莫若父	zhi	fu	nobody understands one's son better than his father (idiom)
知己知彼	zhi	bi	know yourself, know your enemy (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3])
知己知彼百战不殆	zhi	dai	know yourself and know your enemy, and you will never be defeated (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3])
知彼知己	zhi	ji	to know the enemy and know oneself (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War")
知彼知己百战不殆	zhi	dai	knowing the enemy and yourself will get you unscathed through a hundred battles (idiom, from Sunzi's "The Art of War")
知恩不报	zhi	bao	ungrateful
知悭识俭	zhi	jian	(idiom) to know how to be economical
知情人	zhi	ren	person in the know; insider; informed source
知情同意	zhi	yi	informed consent
知情权	zhi	quan	right to know
知情达理	zhi	li	see 通情達理|通情达理[tong1 qing2 da2 li3]
知无不言言无不尽	zhi	jin	(lit.) not hiding anything he knows, not stopping before he has said it through (idiom); (fig.) frank; outspoken
知易行难	zhi	nan	easy to grasp but difficult to put into practice (idiom); easier said than done
知更鸟	zhi	niao	redbreast; robin
知法犯法	zhi	fa	to know the law and break it (idiom); consciously going against the rules
知觉力	zhi	li	ability to perceive; perceptivity; sentience
知识产权	zhi	quan	intellectual property rights (law)
知识共享	zhi	xiang	Creative Commons
知识分子	zhi	zi	variant of 知識分子|知识分子[zhi1 shi5 fen4 zi3]
知识宝库	zhi	ku	treasure house of knowledge
知识工程师	zhi	shi	knowledge worker
知识库	zhi	ku	knowledge base
知识界	zhi	jie	intellectual circles; intelligentsia
知识论	zhi	lun	epistemology
知识越多越反动	zhi	dong	the more knowledgeable, the more reactionary (absurd anti-intellectual slogan attributed after the event to the Gang of Four 四人幫|四人帮[Si4 ren2 bang1])
知识青年	zhi	nian	educated youth; young intellectual; (historical) urban youth with formal education who were sent to rural areas for re-education and labor during the Cultural Revolution (1960s–70s)
知识面	zhi	mian	breadth of knowledge
知足常乐	zhi	le	satisfied with what one has (idiom)
知过改过	zhi	guo	to acknowledge one's faults and correct them (idiom)
知遇之恩	zhi	en	lit. the kindness of recognizing sb's worth and employing him (idiom); patronage; protection
知道了	zhi	le	OK!; Got it!
知错能改	zhi	gai	to recognize one's mistakes and be able to reform oneself (idiom)
知难而退	zhi	tui	(lit.) to sound out the difficulties and retreat to avoid defeat (idiom); (fig.) to back out of an awkward situation; to get out on finding out what it's really like
矩尺座	ju	zuo	Norma (constellation)
矫味剂	jiao	ji	corrective agent; flavoring agent
矫形医生	jiao	sheng	orthopedic doctor
矫形外科	jiao	ke	orthopedic surgery
矫形牙套	jiao	tao	orthodontic brace
矫揉造作	jiao	zuo	pretension; affectation; putting on artificial airs
矫枉过正	jiao	zheng	to overcorrect (idiom); to overcompensate
矫枉过直	jiao	zhi	see 矯枉過正|矫枉过正[jiao3 wang3 guo4 zheng4]
矫正透镜	jiao	jing	correcting lens
矫直机	jiao	ji	(manufacturing) straightening machine; straightener
矬子里拔将军	cuo	jun	lit. to choose a general among the dwarves (idiom); fig. to pick the best out of a bad group
短中取长	duan	chang	see 短中抽長|短中抽长[duan3 zhong1 chou1 chang2]
短中抽长	duan	chang	to make the best of a bad job; to make the best use of limited resources (idiom)
短兵相接	duan	jie	lit. short-weaponed soldiery fight one another (idiom); fierce hand-to-hand infantry combat; to fight at close quarters
短吻鳄	duan	e	alligator
短命鬼	duan	gui	sb who dies prematurely
短嘴山椒鸟	duan	niao	(bird species of China) short-billed minivet (Pericrocotus brevirostris)
短嘴豆雁	duan	yan	(bird species of China) tundra bean goose (Anser serrirostris)
短嘴金丝燕	duan	yan	(bird species of China) Himalayan swiftlet (Aerodramus brevirostris)
短小精悍	duan	han	(of a person) short but plucky (idiom); (of an article) concise and forceful
短尾信天翁	duan	weng	(bird species of China) short-tailed albatross (Phoebastria albatrus)
短尾矮袋鼠	duan	shu	quokka (Setonix brachyurus)
短尾莺	duan	ying	(bird species of China) Asian stubtail (Urosphena squameiceps)
短尾贼鸥	duan	ou	(bird species of China) parasitic jaeger (Stercorarius parasiticus)
短尾鸦雀	duan	que	(bird species of China) short-tailed parrotbill (Suthora davidiana)
短尾鹦鹉	duan	wu	(bird species of China) vernal hanging parrot (Loriculus vernalis)
短尾鹩鹛	duan	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-throated wren-babbler (Spelaeornis caudatus)
短尾鹪鹛	duan	mei	(bird species of China) streaked wren-babbler (Gypsophila brevicaudata)
短尾鹱	duan	hu	(bird species of China) short-tailed shearwater (Ardenna tenuirostris)
短打扮	duan	ban	clothing that exposes the arms and legs (e.g. shorts, sleeveless top); to wear such clothing
短斤缺两	duan	liang	to give short weight
短时储存	duan	cun	short-term storage; store
短时间	duan	jian	short term; short time
短期融资	duan	zi	short-term financing
短波长	duan	chang	short wavelength
短程线	duan	xian	a geodesic
短篇小说	duan	shuo	short story
短耳鸮	duan	xiao	(bird species of China) short-eared owl (Asio flammeus)
短腿猎犬	duan	quan	dachshund; basset hound
短衣帮	duan	bang	lit. short jacket party; working people; the toiling masses
短视近利	duan	li	to be focused on short-term gain
短视频	duan	pin	short video; video clip
短训班	duan	ban	short training course
短趾雕	duan	diao	(bird species of China) short-toed snake eagle (Circaetus gallicus)
短距离	duan	li	short distance; a stone's throw away
短距起落飞机	duan	ji	short takeoff and landing aircraft
矮丑穷	ai	qiong	(Internet slang) (of a man) unmarriageable (lit. short, ugly and poor); opposite: 高富帥|高富帅[gao1 fu4 shuai4]
矮个儿	ai	r	a person of short stature; a short person
矮半截	ai	jie	to be inferior to; to be of a lower grade than
矮呆病	ai	bing	cretinism
矮地茶	ai	cha	(loanword) Japanese ardisia (Ardisia japonica) (herb)
矮墩墩	ai	dun	pudgy; dumpy; stumpy
矮壮素	ai	su	chlormequat chloride; cycocel
矮子里拔将军	ai	jun	lit. choose a general from among the dwarfs; fig. choose the best person available (out of a mediocre bunch)
矮小精悍	ai	han	short but intrepid (idiom)
矮杆品种	ai	zhong	short-stalked variety; short straw variety
矮杨梅	ai	mei	dwarf bayberry (Myrica nana)
矮脚白花蛇利草	ai	cao	see 白花蛇舌草[bai2 hua1 she2 she2 cao3]
矮脚罗伞	ai	san	Ardisia villosa
矮脚苦蒿	ai	hao	see 熊膽草|熊胆草[xiong2 dan3 cao3]
矮茎朱砂根	ai	gen	short-stem Ardisia (Ardisia brevicaulis)
矮行星	ai	xing	dwarf planet
矮黑人	ai	ren	Negrito
石像鬼	shi	gui	gargoyle; grotesque
石刁柏	shi	bai	asparagus
石化厂	shi	chang	petrochemical plant
石南属	shi	shu	heather
石南树	shi	shu	heath
石南花	shi	hua	heather (Ericaceae)
石原慎太郎	shi	lang	Ishihara Shintarō (1932-), Japanese author and politician, governor of Tokyo 1999-2012
石台县	shi	xian	Shitai, a county in Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
石嘴山	shi	shan	see 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 Shi4]
石嘴山市	shi	shi	Shizuishan, prefecture-level city in Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
石器时代	shi	dai	Stone Age
石城县	shi	xian	Shicheng, a county in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
石墨烯	shi	xi	graphene
石墨碳	shi	tan	graphite carbon
石头剪子布	shi	bu	rock-paper-scissors (hand game)
石头奶	shi	nai	engorged breasts; rock-hard breasts (resulting from postnatal milk accumulation or complications from breast implants)
石头火锅	shi	guo	claypot (used in cooking)
石头记	shi	ji	The Story of the Stone, another name for A Dream of Red Mansions 紅樓夢|红楼梦[Hong2 lou2 Meng4]
石子儿	shi	r	erhua form of 石子[shi2 zi3]
石家庄	shi	zhuang	see 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4]
石家庄市	shi	shi	Shijiazhuang, prefecture-level city and capital of Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
石屎森林	shi	lin	(dialect) concrete jungle
石屏县	shi	xian	Shiping, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
石峰区	shi	qu	Shifeng, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
石库门	shi	men	"shikumen" style architecture: traditional (ca. 19th century) residences with courtyards, once common in Shanghai
石投大海	shi	hai	to disappear like a stone dropped into the sea; to vanish forever without trace
石拐区	shi	qu	Shiguai, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
石敢当	shi	dang	stone tablet erected to ward off evil spirits
石斑鱼	shi	yu	grouper (Portuguese: garoupa); also called 鮨; Epinephelinae (subfamily of Serranidae, fish family including grouper)
石景山	shi	shan	see 石景山區|石景山区[Shi2 jing3 shan1 Qu1]
石景山区	shi	qu	Shijingshan, an inner district of west Beijing
石板瓦	shi	wa	slate tile
石板路	shi	lu	road or pavement laid with flagstones
石林县	shi	xian	see 石林彝族自治縣|石林彝族自治县[Shi2 lin2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
石林彝族自治县	shi	xian	Shilin Yi Autonomous County, in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
石柱县	shi	xian	Shizhu Tujia autonomous county in Qianjiang suburbs of Chongqing municipality
石柱土家族自治县	shi	xian	Shizhu Tujia Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
石棉县	shi	xian	Shimian, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
石棉瓦	shi	wa	asbestos roofing sheet (corrugated)
石楼县	shi	xian	Shilou, a county in Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
石榴石	shi	shi	garnet (red gemstone Mg3Al2Si3O12)
石沉大海	shi	hai	lit. to throw a stone and see it sink without trace in the sea (idiom); fig. to elicit no response
石河子	shi	zi	Shihezi, sub-prefecture-level city in Northern Xinjiang
石河子市	shi	shi	Shixenze shehiri (Shixenze city) or Shíhézǐ subprefecture level city in north Xinjiang
石油化学	shi	xue	petrochemistry
石油蜡	shi	la	petroleum wax
石油输出国组织	shi	zhi	Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)
石油醚	shi	mi	petroleum ether
石泉县	shi	xian	Shiquan, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
石渠县	shi	xian	Sêrxü, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
石渠阁	shi	ge	cabinet meeting in 51 BC that established the five classics of Confucianism 五經|五经[Wu3 jing1] as state canon
石渠阁议	shi	yi	cabinet meeting in 51 BC that established the five classics of Confucianism 五經|五经[Wu3 jing1] as state canon
石灰华	shi	hua	travertine (geology); tufa (a type of banded marble)
石灰岩	shi	yan	limestone
石灰石	shi	shi	limestone
石炭井	shi	jing	Shitanjing subdistrict of Dawukou district 大武口區|大武口区[Da4 wu3 kou3 qu1] of Shizuishan city 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 shi4], Ningxia
石炭井区	shi	qu	Shitanjing subdistrict of Dawukou district 大武口區|大武口区[Da4 wu3 kou3 qu1] of Shizuishan city 石嘴山市[Shi2 zui3 shan1 shi4], Ningxia
石炭系	shi	xi	carboniferous system; coal measure (geology)
石炭纪	shi	ji	Carboniferous (geological period 354-292m years ago)
石炭酸	shi	suan	phenol C6H5OH; same as 苯酚
石狮子	shi	zi	guardian lion, a lion statue traditionally placed at the entrance of Chinese imperial palaces, imperial tombs, temples etc
石狮市	shi	shi	Shishi, a county-level city in Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
石玉昆	shi	kun	Shi Yukun (c. 1810-1871), Qing pinghua 評話|评话[ping2 hua4] master storyteller
石破天惊	shi	jing	earth-shattering; breakthrough; remarkable and original work
石竹属	shi	shu	Dianthus genus (carnations and pinks)
石竹目	shi	mu	Class Magnoliopsida (biology)
石竹科	shi	ke	Caryophyllaceae family (carnations and pinks)
石脑油	shi	you	naphtha
石膏墙板	shi	ban	drywall; gypsum wallboard; plasterboard
石膏绷带	shi	dai	plaster cast
石花菜	shi	cai	Gelidium amansii, species of red algae from which agar is extracted
石英卤素灯	shi	deng	quartz halogen lamp
石英脉	shi	mai	quartz vein
石英表	shi	biao	quartz watch
石英钟	shi	zhong	quartz clock
石蕊试纸	shi	zhi	(chemistry) litmus paper
石钟乳	shi	ru	stalactite
石门县	shi	xian	Shimen, a county in Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
石阡县	shi	xian	Shiqian, a county in Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
石首市	shi	shi	Shishou, a county-level city in Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
石鲮鱼	shi	yu	pangolin (Manis pentadactylata); scaly ant-eater
石鼓区	shi	qu	Shigu, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
石鼓文	shi	wen	early form of Chinese characters inscribed in stone, a precursor of the small seal 小篆[xiao3 zhuan4]
石龙区	shi	qu	Shilong, a district of Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
石龙子	shi	zi	skink; lizard
矽利康	xi	kang	(Tw) silicone (loanword)
矽晶片	xi	pian	silicon chip; also written 硅晶片[gui1 jing1 pian4]
矽橡胶	xi	jiao	(Tw) silicone rubber
矽肺病	xi	bing	silicosis
矽铝层	xi	ceng	Sial
矽镁层	xi	ceng	sima (geology); silicon and magnesium layer in earth's crust
矿产资源	kuang	yuan	mineral resources
矿务局	kuang	ju	mining affairs bureau
矿油精	kuang	jing	mineral spirits
矿泉水	kuang	shui	mineral water; CL:瓶[ping2],杯[bei1]
矿物学	kuang	xue	mineralogy
矿物燃料	kuang	liao	fossil fuels; oil and coal
矿物质	kuang	zhi	mineral, esp. dietary mineral
砀山县	dang	xian	Dangshan, a county in Suzhou City 宿州市[Su4 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
码分多址	ma	zhi	Code Division Multiple Access (CDMA) (telecommunications)
码长城	ma	cheng	(coll.) to play mahjong
砂拉越	sha	yue	see 沙撈越|沙捞越[Sha1 lao1 yue4]
砂积矿床	sha	chuang	placer (alluvial deposit containing valuable metals)
砂糖橘	sha	ju	sugar mandarin (Citrus reticulata cv. "Shatangju"), a cultivar of mandarin that originated in Guangdong, known for its sweet flavor and easy-to-peel skin
砌合法	qi	fa	bond (in building)
砌砖工	qi	gong	bricklaying
砌词捏控	qi	kong	to make an accusation based on fabricated evidence (idiom)
砌长城	qi	cheng	(coll.) to play mahjong
砍大山	kan	shan	variant of 侃大山[kan3 da4 shan1]
砍头不过风吹帽	kan	mao	to regard decapitation as no more important than the wind blowing off your hat (idiom)
研修员	yan	yuan	research worker; researcher
研磨料	yan	liao	abrasive (material)
研磨材料	yan	liao	abrasive; grinding material
研磨盘	yan	pan	abrasive disk; sanding disk
研究中心	yan	xin	research center
研究人员	yan	yuan	research worker; research personnel
研究员	yan	yuan	researcher
研究小组	yan	zu	research group
研究所	yan	suo	research institute; graduate studies; graduate school
研究报告	yan	gao	research report
研究机构	yan	gou	research organization
研究生	yan	sheng	graduate student; postgraduate student; research student
研究生院	yan	yuan	graduate school
研究者	yan	zhe	investigator; researcher
研究院	yan	yuan	research institute; academy
研究领域	yan	yu	research area; field of research
研讨会	yan	hui	discussion forum; seminar
砖窑场	zhuan	chang	brick kiln
砖红土	zhuan	tu	red brick clay
砚山县	yan	xian	Yanshan, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
砚水壶儿	yan	r	water container for an ink slab
砭灸术	bian	shu	acupuncture and moxibustion (Chinese medicine)
破产者	po	zhe	bankrupt person
破伤风	po	feng	tetanus (lockjaw)
破体字	po	zi	nonstandard or corrupted form of a Chinese character
破冰型艏	po	shou	icebreaker bow
破冰舰	po	jian	icebreaker
破冰船	po	chuan	icebreaker
破口大骂	po	ma	(idiom) to let out a torrent of abuse
破四旧	po	jiu	Destroy the Four Olds (campaign of the Cultural Revolution)
破土典礼	po	li	ground breaking ceremony
破坏性	po	xing	destructive
破坏无遗	po	yi	damaged beyond repair
破坏活动	po	dong	sabotage; subversive activities
破壁机	po	ji	high-speed blender
破壳日	po	ri	(slang) (fig.) birthday
破壳齿	po	chi	egg tooth
破天荒	po	huang	unprecedented; for the first time; never before
破屋又遭连夜雨	po	yu	see 屋漏偏逢連夜雨|屋漏偏逢连夜雨[wu1 lou4 pian1 feng2 lian2 ye4 yu3]
破折号	po	hao	dash; Chinese dash ── (punct., double the length of the western dash)
破旧立新	po	xin	to get rid of the old to bring in the new (idiom); to innovate
破涕为笑	po	xiao	to turn tears into laughter (idiom); to turn grief into happiness
破片杀伤	po	shang	(military) fragmentation (grenade, bomb etc)
破瓦寒窑	po	yao	lit. broken tiles, cold hearth; fig. a broken-down house; poor and shabby dwelling
破甲弹	po	dan	armor piercing shell
破碗破摔	po	shuai	lit. to smash a cracked pot; fig. to treat oneself as hopeless and act crazily
破竹之势	po	shi	lit. a force to smash bamboo (idiom); fig. irresistible force
破竹建瓴	po	ling	lit. smash bamboo, overturn water tank (idiom); fig. irresistible force
破纪录	po	lu	to break a record; record-breaking
破绽百出	po	chu	(of an argument, theory etc) full of flaws (idiom)
破罐破摔	po	shuai	(lit.) to smash a pot just because it has a crack (idiom); (fig.) to give up altogether after a setback; to throw one's hands up in frustration and let it all go to hell
破茧成蝶	po	die	lit. to break through a cocoon and turn into a butterfly (idiom); fig. to emerge strong after a period of struggle; to get to a better place after going through difficult period
破裂音	po	yin	(linguistics) (old) plosive; stop
破解版	po	ban	cracked version (of software)
破财免灾	po	zai	a financial loss may prevent disaster (idiom)
破败不堪	po	kan	crushed; utterly defeated
破釜沉舟	po	zhou	lit. to break the cauldrons and sink the boats (idiom); fig. to cut off one's means of retreat; to burn one's boats
破镜重圆	po	yuan	(lit.) the two halves of the broken mirror are rejoined (idiom); (fig.) long-separated lovers are reunited; a broken relationship is restored
破门而入	po	ru	to break the door down and enter (idiom)
破除迷信	po	xin	to eliminate superstition (idiom)
破音字	po	zi	character with two or more readings; character where different readings convey different meanings (Tw)
破题儿	po	r	erhua form of 破題|破题[po4 ti2] (chiefly used in the colloquial "first-time-ever" sense)
破题儿第一遭	po	zao	(coll.) one's first time ever experiencing sth (esp. sth notable or unusual)
砷中毒	shen	du	arsenic poisoning
砷凡纳明	shen	ming	arsphenamine
砷化氢	shen	qing	arsine
砷化镓	shen	jia	gallium arsenide (GaAs)
砸场子	za	zi	to create a disruption at an event or venue
砸锅卖铁	za	tie	to be willing to sacrifice everything one has (idiom)
硅化木	gui	mu	petrified wood (geology)
硅晶片	gui	pian	silicon chip
硅橡胶	gui	jiao	silicone rubber
硅灰石	gui	shi	wollastonite CaSiO3
硅肺病	gui	bing	see 矽肺病[xi1 fei4 bing4]
硅藻门	gui	men	Bacillariophyta, phylum of diatom single-celled phytoplankton
硅质岩	gui	yan	siliceous rock (mostly composed of silica)
硅酸氟铝	gui	lv	aluminum fluorosilicate
硅酸盐	gui	yan	silicate
硅酸盐水泥	gui	ni	Portland cement
硅铝质	gui	zhi	sial rock (containing silicon and aluminium, so comparatively light, making continental plates)
硕士学位	shuo	wei	master's degree
硕士生	shuo	sheng	Master's degree student
硕大无朋	shuo	peng	(idiom) very big; huge
硕大无比	shuo	bi	(idiom) very big; huge
硕果仅存	shuo	cun	only remaining of the great (idiom); one of the few greats extant
硕果累累	shuo	lei	heavily laden with fruit; fertile (of trees); many noteworthy achievements
硚口区	qiao	qu	Qiaokou, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
硝化棉	xiao	mian	nitrocellulose; guncotton
硝化甘油	xiao	you	nitroglycerine
硝基苯	xiao	ben	nitrobenzene; benzoil nitrate (chemistry)
硝烟滚滚	xiao	gun	(idiom) smoke billows from the raging battle
硝酸甘油	xiao	you	nitroglycerine
硝酸盐	xiao	yan	nitrate
硝酸钙	xiao	gai	calcium nitrate
硝酸钠	xiao	na	sodium nitrate
硝酸钾	xiao	jia	potassium nitrate
硝酸铵	xiao	an	ammonium nitrate
硝酸银	xiao	yin	silver nitrate
硫代硫酸钠	liu	na	sodium hyposulfide; sodium thiosulfate
硫化氢	liu	qing	hydrogen sulfide H2S; sulfureted hydrogen
硫氰酸	liu	suan	thiocyanic acid
硫氰酸盐	liu	yan	thiocyanate
硫氰酸酶	liu	mei	rhodanase
硫胺素	liu	su	thiamine; vitamin B1
硫酸亚铁	liu	tie	iron(II) sulfate; ferrous sulfate
硫酸盐	liu	yan	sulfate
硫酸钙	liu	gai	calcium sulfate
硫酸钠	liu	na	sodium sulfate
硫酸钡	liu	bei	barium sulfate
硫酸钾	liu	jia	potassium sulfate
硫酸铁	liu	tie	ferrous sulfate
硫酸铜	liu	tong	copper sulfate CuSO4
硫酸铝	liu	lv	aluminum sulfate
硫酸铵	liu	an	ammonium sulfate
硫酸镁	liu	mei	magnesium sulfate
硫黄鹀	liu	wu	(bird species of China) yellow bunting (Emberiza sulphurata)
硬件平台	ying	tai	hardware platform
硬壳果	ying	guo	nut
硬实力	ying	li	hard power (i.e. military and economic power)
硬币坯饼	ying	bing	coin blank
硬底子	ying	zi	(esp. of an actor) strong; capable
硬式磁碟机	ying	ji	hard disk; hard drive
硬梆梆	ying	bang	variant of 硬邦邦[ying4 bang1 bang1]
硬生生	ying	sheng	stiff; rigid; inflexible
硬目标	ying	biao	hard target
硬着头皮	ying	pi	to brace oneself to do sth; to put a bold face on it; to summon up courage
硬着陆	ying	lu	(aviation) hard landing; (economics) hard landing
硬石膏	ying	gao	anhydrite CaSO4
硬碰硬	ying	ying	to meet force with force; painstaking
硬磁盘	ying	pan	hard drive; hard disk
硬编码	ying	ma	(computing) to hard code; hard-coded
硬脂酸	ying	suan	stearic acid; stearate
硬脂酸钙	ying	gai	calcium stearate
硬通货	ying	huo	(finance) hard currency; strong currency
硬邦邦	ying	bang	very hard
硬顶跑车	ying	che	sports coupé (car)
硬骨头	ying	tou	resolute individual; a hard nut to crack; tough mission
硬骨鱼	ying	yu	bony fishes; Osteichthyes (taxonomic class including most fish)
确凿不移	que	yi	established and irrefutable (idiom)
确定性	que	xing	determinacy
确山县	que	xian	Queshan, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
确有其事	que	shi	(confirm to be) true; authentic
碌曲县	lu	xian	Luqu, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
碌碌无为	lu	wei	unaccomplished; mediocre; feckless
碍口识羞	ai	xiu	tongue-tied for fear of embarrassment (idiom)
碍手碍脚	ai	jiao	(idiom) to be in the way; to be a hindrance
碍胃口	ai	kou	to impair the appetite
碍难从命	ai	ming	difficult to obey orders (idiom); much to my embarrassment, I am unable to comply
碍面子	ai	zi	(not do sth) for fear of offending sb
碎块儿	sui	r	erhua variant of 碎塊|碎块[sui4 kuai4]
碎尸万段	sui	duan	(idiom) to cut up sb's body into thousands of pieces (a hyperbolic threat)
碎屑岩	sui	yan	clastic rock (geology)
碎屑沉积物	sui	wu	clastic sediment
碎布条	sui	tiao	shred
碎心裂胆	sui	dan	in mortal fear (idiom)
碎片整理	sui	li	defragmentation (computing)
碎碎念	sui	nian	to sound like a broken record; to prattle; to nag
碎纸机	sui	ji	paper shredder
碎音钹	sui	bo	crash cymbal (drum kit component)
碑座儿	bei	r	erhua variant of 碑座[bei1 zuo4]
碑林区	bei	qu	Beilin, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
碘化钠	dian	na	sodium iodide NaI
碘化钾	dian	jia	potassium iodide
碘化银	dian	yin	silver iodide
碧昂丝	bi	si	Beyoncé (1981-), American pop singer
碧根果	bi	guo	(loanword) pecan
碧欧泉	bi	quan	Biotherm (brand name)
碧江区	bi	qu	Bijiang, a district of Tongren City 銅仁市|铜仁市[Tong2 ren2 Shi4], Guizhou
碧海青天	bi	tian	green sea, blue sky (idiom); sea and sky merge in one shade; loneliness of faithful widow
碧草如茵	bi	yin	green grass like cushion (idiom); green meadow so inviting to sleep on
碧螺春	bi	chun	biluochun or pi lo chun, a type of green tea grown in the Dongting Mountain region near Lake Tai 太湖[Tai4 Hu2], Jiangsu
碰一鼻子灰	peng	hui	lit. to have one's nose rubbed in the dirt; fig. to meet with a sharp rebuff
碰撞造山	peng	shan	collisional orogeny; mountain building as a result of continents colliding
碰瓷儿	peng	r	erhua form of 碰瓷[peng4 ci2]
碰碰车	peng	che	bumper car
碰运气	peng	qi	to try one's luck; to leave sth to chance
碰钉子	peng	zi	to meet with a rebuff
碱土金属	jian	shu	alkaline earth (i.e. beryllium Be 鈹|铍, magnesium Mg 鎂|镁, calcium Ca 鈣|钙, strontium Sr 鍶|锶, barium Ba 鋇|钡 and radium Ra 鐳|镭)
碱基互补配对	jian	dui	complementary base pairing e.g. adenine A 腺嘌呤 pairs with thymine T 胸腺嘧啶 in DNA
碱基对	jian	dui	base pair (molecular biology)
碱基配对	jian	dui	base pairing (e.g. adenine A 腺嘌呤 pairs with thymine T 胸腺嘧啶 in DNA); base pair
碱式盐	jian	yan	alkali salt (soda, lye, calcium carbonate etc)
碱性土	jian	tu	alkaline soil
碱性电池	jian	chi	alkaline battery
碱性蓝	jian	lan	alkali blue
碱性金属	jian	shu	alkali metal
碱水面包	jian	bao	bread made with a lye solution; (esp.) pretzel
碱金属	jian	shu	alkali metal
碳中和	tan	he	carbon neutrality; carbon-neutral
碳减排	tan	pai	to reduce carbon emissions
碳化氢	tan	qing	hydrocarbon; same as 烴|烃[ting1]
碳化物	tan	wu	carbide
碳化硅	tan	gui	silicon carbide; carborundum
碳化钙	tan	gai	calcium carbide CaC2
碳原子	tan	zi	carbon atom
碳性电池	tan	chi	carbon-zinc battery
碳排放	tan	fang	carbon emissions; carbon dioxide emissions
碳氢化合物	tan	wu	hydrocarbon
碳水化合物	tan	wu	carbohydrate
碳纤维	tan	wei	carbon fiber
碳足印	tan	yin	carbon footprint
碳足迹	tan	ji	carbon footprint
碳酰氯	tan	lv	carbonyl chloride COCl2; phosgene, a poisonous gas
碳酸岩	tan	yan	carbonate rock (geology)
碳酸氢钠	tan	na	sodium bicarbonate
碳酸氢铵	tan	an	ammonium bicarbonate
碳酸盐	tan	yan	carbonate salt (chemistry)
碳酸钙	tan	gai	calcium carbonate
碳酸钠	tan	na	soda; sodium carbonate (chemistry)
碳酸钾	tan	jia	potassium carbonate
碳链纤维	tan	wei	carbon chain fiber
碳隔离	tan	li	carbon sequestration
碾子山	nian	shan	see 碾子山區|碾子山区[Nian3 zi5 shan1 Qu1]
碾子山区	nian	qu	Nianzishan, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
碾米机	nian	ji	rice milling machine
磁共振	ci	zhen	magnetic resonance
磁共振成像	ci	xiang	magnetic resonance imaging (MRI)
磁力线	ci	xian	line of magnetic flux
磁力链接	ci	jie	(computing) magnet link
磁力锁	ci	suo	magnetic lock
磁动势	ci	shi	magnetomotive force
磁单极子	ci	zi	magnetic monopole
磁吸效应	ci	ying	"magnetic" force that attracts investment and talented individuals; in particular, the attraction China has for people and capital from around the world
磁带机	ci	ji	tape drive
磁异常	ci	chang	magnetic anomaly (geology)
磁悬浮	ci	fu	magnetic levitation (train); maglev
磁感应	ci	ying	magnetic induction
磁感应强度	ci	du	magnetic field density
磁感线	ci	xian	line of magnetic flux
磁控管	ci	guan	cavity magnetron (used to produce microwaves)
磁气圈	ci	quan	magnetosphere
磁盘驱动器	ci	qi	disk drive
磁碟机	ci	ji	disk drive (computing); drive (computing)
磁轨炮	ci	pao	railgun
磁通量	ci	liang	magnetic flux
磁通门	ci	men	fluxgate (electrical engineering)
磁重联	ci	lian	(physics) magnetic reconnection
磁铁矿	ci	kuang	magnetite Fe3O4
磅蛋糕	bang	gao	pound cake
磊落大方	lei	fang	to be generous in the extreme (idiom)
磐安县	pan	xian	Pan'an, a county in Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
磐石市	pan	shi	Panshi, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
磕头如捣蒜	ke	suan	(idiom) to kowtow repeatedly and rapidly (esp. when pleading for mercy)
磕磕巴巴	ke	ba	stammering; stuttering; not speaking fluently
磕磕绊绊	ke	ban	bumpy (of a road); limping (of a person)
磕膝盖	ke	gai	(dialect) knee
磨不开	mo	kai	to feel embarrassed
磨刀不误砍柴工	mo	gong	lit. sharpening the axe won't make the wood-splitting take longer (idiom); fig. time invested in preparations is not lost; a beard well lathered is half shaved
磨刀石	mo	shi	whetstone (for honing knives)
磨刀霍霍	mo	huo	(lit.) to sharpen one's sword (idiom); (fig.) to prepare to attack; to be getting ready for battle
磨制石器	mo	qi	a polished stone (neolithic) implement
磨嘴皮子	mo	zi	to wear out the skin of one's teeth (idiom); pointlessly blather; to talk incessant nonsense; blah blah
磨坊主	mo	zhu	miller
磨得开	mo	kai	to feel unembarrassed; to be at ease; (dialect) to be convinced; to come round
磨拳擦掌	mo	zhang	variant of 摩拳擦掌[mo1 quan2 ca1 zhang3]
磨损率	mo	lv	attrition rate
磨杵成针	mo	zhen	to grind an iron bar down to a fine needle (idiom); fig. to persevere in a difficult task; to study diligently
磨洋工	mo	gong	to idle on the job
磨石砂砾	mo	li	millstone grit; coarse sandstone
磨石粗砂岩	mo	yan	millstone grit
磨砂机	mo	ji	sander; sanding machine
磨砂玻璃	mo	li	frosted glass
磨砂膏	mo	gao	facial scrub
磨破口舌	mo	she	incessant complaining
磨破嘴皮	mo	pi	to talk until one is blue in the face
磨破嘴皮子	mo	zi	to wear out one's lips (idiom); to talk until one is blue in the face; to repeat again and again
磨磨蹭蹭	mo	ceng	to dillydally; slow-going
磨穿铁砚	mo	yan	to grind one's way through an ink stone; to persevere in a difficult task (idiom); to study diligently (idiom)
磨脚石	mo	shi	pumice stone
磨豆腐	mo	fu	to grumble; to chatter away incessantly
磨起泡	mo	pao	friction blister
磴口县	deng	xian	Dengkou, a county in Bayannur City 巴彥淖爾市|巴彦淖尔市[Ba1 yan4 nao4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
磷化钙	lin	gai	calcium phosphide (Ca3P2)
磷灰石	lin	shi	(mineralogy) apatite
磷矿石	lin	shi	phosphate rock; phosphate ore
磷酸盐	lin	yan	phosphate (salt or ester of phosphoric acid)
磷酸盐岩	lin	yan	(mineralogy) phosphorite
磷酸钙	lin	gai	calcium phosphate (Ca3(PO4)2), inorganic salt used in fertilizers and food additives
磷酸钠	lin	na	sodium phosphate (Na3PO4), inorganic salt used in detergents and food processing
礁湖星云	jiao	yun	Lagoon Nebula, M8
礤床儿	ca	r	shredder; grater (kitchen implement for grating vegetables)
示例代码	shi	ma	(computing) sample code; example code
示威游行	shi	xing	(protest) demonstration
示威者	shi	zhe	demonstrator; protester
示威运动	shi	dong	rally
示性类	shi	lei	characteristic class (math.)
示意图	shi	tu	sketch; schematic diagram; graph
示波器	shi	qi	oscillograph; oscilloscope
礼义廉耻	li	chi	(idiom) propriety, justice, integrity and a sense of shame (i.e. the four social bonds, 四維|四维[si4 wei2])
礼乐崩坏	li	huai	see 禮崩樂壞|礼崩乐坏[li3 beng1 yue4 huai4]
礼仪之邦	li	bang	(idiom) a land of ceremony and propriety
礼坏乐崩	li	beng	see 禮崩樂壞|礼崩乐坏[li3 beng1 yue4 huai4]
礼多人不怪	li	guai	nobody will find fault with extra courtesy (idiom); courtesy costs nothing
礼宾员	li	yuan	concierge
礼宾部	li	bu	concierge department of a hotel or resort
礼尚往来	li	lai	lit. proper behavior is based on reciprocity (idiom); fig. to return politeness for politeness
礼崩乐坏	li	huai	rites and music are in ruins (idiom); fig. society in total disarray; cf. 禮樂|礼乐[li3 yue4]
礼废乐崩	li	beng	see 禮崩樂壞|礼崩乐坏[li3 beng1 yue4 huai4]
礼拜一	li	yi	Monday
礼拜三	li	san	Wednesday
礼拜二	li	er	Tuesday
礼拜五	li	wu	Friday
礼拜六	li	liu	Saturday
礼拜四	li	si	Thursday
礼拜堂	li	tang	chapel; church (Protestant)
礼拜天	li	tian	Sunday
礼拜日	li	ri	Sunday
礼教吃人	li	ren	sufferings brought about by Confucian ethics
礼服店	li	dian	(Tw) nightlife venue where hostesses wear formal evening gowns
礼泉县	li	xian	Liquan, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
礼炮号	li	hao	Salyut (salute), Russian spacecraft series
礼贤下士	li	shi	respect for the wise
礼轻人意重	li	zhong	slight present but weighty meaning (idiom); It's not the present the counts, it's the thought behind it.
礼轻情意重	li	zhong	goose feather sent from afar, a trifling present with a weighty thought behind it (idiom); It's not the gift that counts, but the thought behind it.
礼部尚书	li	shu	Director of Board of Rites (Confucian)
社交媒体	she	ti	social media
社交恐惧症	she	zheng	social phobia; social anxiety
社交才能	she	neng	social accomplishment
社交牛逼症	she	zheng	(neologism, attested by 2021) (slang) extreme gregariousness; over-the-top confidence in social interactions
社交网站	she	zhan	social networking site
社交舞	she	wu	social dancing
社会主义	she	yi	socialism
社会主义教育运动	she	dong	Socialist Education Movement (1963-66), formal name of the Four Cleanups Movement 四清運動|四清运动[Si4 qing1 Yun4 dong4]
社会主义者	she	zhe	socialist
社会事业	she	ye	social enterprise
社会保险	she	xian	social security
社会保障	she	zhang	social security
社会信用体系	she	xi	social credit system, a system that incentivizes individuals and businesses by creating consequences for good and bad behavior
社会党	she	dang	socialist party
社会公共利益	she	yi	public interest
社会关怀	she	huai	social care
社会关系	she	xi	social relation
社会化	she	hua	to socialize
社会名流	she	liu	celebrity; public figure
社会团体	she	ti	social group; community organization
社会学	she	xue	sociology
社会工作	she	zuo	social work
社会工作者	she	zhe	social worker
社会工程学	she	xue	(cybersecurity) social engineering
社会性	she	xing	social; societal
社会总需求	she	qiu	aggregate social demand; total requirement of society
社会服务	she	wu	social services
社会正义	she	yi	social justice
社会民主	she	zhu	social democracy
社会民主主义	she	yi	social democracy
社会民主党	she	dang	Social Democratic Party
社会活动	she	dong	social activity
社会环境	she	jing	social environment; milieu
社会科学	she	xue	social sciences
社会等级	she	ji	social rank; class; caste
社会经济	she	ji	socio-economic
社会融资	she	zi	private (non-government) financing
社会行动	she	dong	social actions
社会语言学	she	xue	sociolinguistics
社会达尔文主义	she	yi	social Darwinism
社会阶层	she	ceng	social class
社区大学	she	xue	community college
社工人	she	ren	social worker
社旗县	she	xian	Sheqi, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
社民党	she	dang	Social Democratic party
社科院	she	yuan	(Chinese) Academy of Social Sciences (CASS)
社维法	she	fa	(Tw) public order laws; abbr. of 社會秩序維護法|社会秩序维护法[she4 hui4 zhi4 xu4 wei2 hu4 fa3]
社群媒体	she	ti	(Tw) social media
社鼠城狐	she	hu	lit. rat in a country shrine, fox on town walls; fig. unprincipled thugs who abuse others' power to bully and exploit people
祁东县	qi	xian	Qidong, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
祁奚之荐	qi	jian	Qi Xi's recommendation (idiom); recommending the best person for the job independent of factional loyalty
祁连县	qi	xian	Qilian, a county in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
祁连山	qi	shan	Qilian Mountains in Qinghai
祁连山脉	qi	mai	Qilian Mountains (formerly Richthofen Range), dividing Qinghai and Gansu provinces
祁门县	qi	xian	Qimen, a county in Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
祁阳市	qi	shi	Qiyang, a county-level city in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
祈仙台	qi	tai	memorial altar; platform for praying to immortals
祈使句	qi	ju	imperative sentence
祈福禳灾	qi	zai	to pray for luck and sacrifice to avoid disasters (i.e. traditional superstitions)
祖冲之	zu	zhi	Zu Chongzhi (429-500), astronomer and mathematician
祖国和平统一委员会	zu	hui	Committee for Peaceful Reunification of the Fatherland (North Korean)
祖姑母	zu	mu	father's father's sister; great aunt
祖师爷	zu	ye	founder (of a craft, religious sect etc)
祖母绿	zu	lv	emerald
祖父母	zu	mu	paternal grandparents
祖父辈	zu	bei	people of one's grandparents' generation
祖祖辈辈	zu	bei	for generations; from generation to generation
祖鲁人	zu	ren	Zulu people
祖鸟类	zu	lei	dinosaur ancestors of birds
祛痰药	qu	yao	medicine to dispel phlegm (TCM)
祝允明	zhu	ming	Zhu Yunming (1460-1526), Ming dynasty calligrapher
祝枝山	zhu	shan	Zhu Zhishan (1460-1526), Ming calligrapher and poet, one of Four great southern talents of the Ming 江南四大才子
祝融号	zhu	hao	the "Zhurong" Chinese Mars rover, landed on the planet in 2021
祝贺词	zhu	ci	congratulatory speech
祝酒词	zhu	ci	short speech given in proposing a toast
祝酒辞	zhu	ci	short speech given in proposing a toast
神不守舍	shen	she	(idiom) absentminded; dazed; distracted
神不知鬼不觉	shen	jue	top secret; hush-hush
神乎其技	shen	ji	(idiom) brilliant; extremely skillful; virtuosic
神农本草经	shen	jing	Shennong's Compendium of Materia Medica, a Han dynasty pharmacological compendium, 3 scrolls
神农架	shen	jia	Shennongjialin, directly administered forestry reserve in east Hubei
神农架地区	shen	qu	Shennongjialin, directly administered forestry reserve in east Hubei
神农架林区	shen	qu	Shennongjialin, directly administered forestry reserve in east Hubei
神农氏	shen	shi	Shennong or Farmer God (c. 2000 BC), first of the legendary Flame Emperors, 炎帝[Yan2 di4] and creator of agriculture in China; followers or clan of Shennong 神農|神农[Shen2 nong2]
神出鬼没	shen	mo	(lit.) to appear and disappear unpredictably like a spirit or a ghost (idiom); (fig.) elusive
神劳形瘁	shen	cui	to be completely drained both emotionally and physically (idiom)
神圣不可侵犯	shen	fan	sacred; inviolable
神圣周	shen	zhou	Holy week; Easter week (esp. Catholic)
神圣罗马帝国	shen	guo	the Holy Roman Empire (history)
神奇宝贝	shen	bei	Pokémon or Pocket Monsters, popular Japanese video game, anime and manga
神奈川	shen	chuan	Kanagawa (prefecture in Japan)
神女峰	shen	feng	name of a peak by the Three Gorges 長江三峽|长江三峡[Chang2 Jiang1 San1 xia2]
神女有心襄王无梦	shen	meng	lit. the fairy is willing, but King Xiang doesn't dream (idiom); (said of a woman's unrequited love)
神学士	shen	shi	student of theology; Bachelor of Divinity; Taleban (Farsi: student)
神学家	shen	jia	theologian
神学研究所	shen	suo	seminary
神学院	shen	yuan	seminary
神工鬼斧	shen	fu	see 鬼斧神工[gui3 fu3 shen2 gong1]
神差鬼使	shen	shi	see 鬼使神差[gui3 shi3 shen2 chai1]
神志不清	shen	qing	to be delirious; to be mentally confused
神志昏迷	shen	mi	to be in a state of delirium
神思恍惚	shen	hu	abstracted; absent-minded; in a trance
神憎鬼厌	shen	yan	(idiom) despicable; loathsome
神木市	shen	shi	Shenmu, a county-level city in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
神机妙算	shen	suan	divine strategy and wonderful planning (idiom); clever scheme; supremely clever in his schemes
神权政治	shen	zhi	theocracy
神权统治	shen	zhi	theocracy
神枪手	shen	shou	sharpshooter
神气活现	shen	xian	arrogant appearance; smug appearance; to act condescending
神池县	shen	xian	Shenchi, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
神清气爽	shen	shuang	(idiom) full of vitality; relaxed and alert
神神叨叨	shen	dao	see 神神道道[shen2 shen5 dao4 dao4]
神神道道	shen	dao	odd; weird; abnormal
神秘主义	shen	yi	mysticism
神秘莫测	shen	ce	mystery; unfathomable; enigmatic
神秘面纱	shen	sha	veil of mystery
神经中枢	shen	shu	(anatomy) nerve center
神经元	shen	yuan	neuron
神经元网	shen	wang	neural network
神经原	shen	yuan	variant of 神經元|神经元[shen2 jing1 yuan2]
神经原纤维	shen	wei	(anatomy) neurofibril
神经外科	shen	ke	neurosurgery
神经大条	shen	tiao	thick-skinned; insensitive
神经失常	shen	chang	mental aberration; nervous abnormality
神经学	shen	xue	neurology
神经学家	shen	jia	neurologist
神经官能症	shen	zheng	neurosis
神经性	shen	xing	neural; mental; neurological
神经性毒剂	shen	ji	nerve agent; nerve gas
神经毒素	shen	su	neurotoxin
神经氨酸酶	shen	mei	neuraminidase (the N of virus such as bird flu H5N1)
神经生物学	shen	xue	neurobiology
神经病	shen	bing	mental disorder; neuropathy; (derog.) mental case
神经症	shen	zheng	neurosis
神经痛	shen	tong	neuralgia (medicine)
神经科	shen	ke	neurology department
神经突	shen	tu	nerve process
神经管	shen	guan	neural tube (embryology)
神经系统	shen	tong	(anatomy) nervous system
神经索	shen	suo	nerve cord
神经纤维	shen	wei	(anatomy) nerve fiber
神经纤维瘤	shen	liu	(medicine) neurofibroma
神经细胞	shen	bao	nerve cell; neuron
神经网	shen	wang	neural net
神经网络	shen	luo	neural network
神经网路	shen	lu	neural network (artificial or biological)
神经胶质	shen	zhi	glial cell; neuroglia
神经胶质细胞	shen	bao	glial cell (provide support to neuron); neuroglia
神经节	shen	jie	(anatomy) ganglion
神经衰弱	shen	ruo	nervous exhaustion; neurasthenia; mental breakdown (often used to describe what is now understood to be clinical depression)
神经质	shen	zhi	nervous; on edge; excitable
神经过敏	shen	min	jumpy; nervous; oversensitive
神经递质	shen	zhi	neurotransmitter
神职人员	shen	yuan	clergy; cleric
神舟号飞船	shen	chuan	Shenzhou (spacecraft)
神话故事	shen	shi	mythical story; myth
神通广大	shen	da	(idiom) to possess great magical power; to possess remarkable abilities
神造论	shen	lun	creationism
神道教	shen	jiao	Shinto
神采奕奕	shen	yi	in glowing spirits (idiom); bursting with life; radiating health and vigor
神采飞扬	shen	yang	in high spirits (idiom); glowing with health and vigor
神雕侠侣	shen	lv	variant of 神鵰俠侶|神雕侠侣[Shen2 diao1 Xia2 lu:3]
神风特攻队	shen	dui	Kamikaze Unit (Japanese corps of suicide pilots in World War II); kamikaze (vodka-based cocktail)
神风突击队	shen	dui	kamikaze unit (Japanese corps of suicide pilots in World War II)
神魂颠倒	shen	dao	lit. spirit and soul upside down (idiom); infatuated and head over heels in love; fascinated; captivated
神魔小说	shen	shuo	supernatural novel; novel of ghosts and goblins
神龙汽车	shen	che	Dongfeng Peugeot-Citroën (automobile company)
祥云县	xiang	xian	Xiangyun, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
祥符区	xiang	qu	Xiangfu, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
票友儿	piao	r	an amateur actor (e.g. in Chinese opera)
票据法	piao	fa	negotiable instruments act
票贩子	piao	zi	ticket scalper
票面值	piao	zhi	par value; face value (of a bond)
祭司权术	ji	shu	priestcraft
祸不单行	huo	xing	misfortune does not come singly (idiom); it never rains but it pours
祸不旋踵	huo	zhong	trouble is never far away (idiom)
祸从口出	huo	chu	Trouble issues from the mouth (idiom). A loose tongue may cause a lot of trouble.
祸国殃民	huo	min	to damage the country and cause suffering to the people (idiom)
祸福与共	huo	gong	to stick together through thick and thin (idiom)
祸福吉凶	huo	xiong	fate; portent; luck or disasters as foretold in the stars (astrology)
祸福无常	huo	chang	disaster and happiness do not follow rules (idiom); future blessings and misfortunes are unpredictable
祸首罪魁	huo	kui	see 罪魁禍首|罪魁祸首[zui4 kui2 huo4 shou3]
禁不住	jin	zhu	can't help it; can't bear it
禁不起	jin	qi	to be unable to stand
禁制令	jin	ling	prohibition; ban; law forbidding sth
禁卫军	jin	jun	imperial guard
禁忌语	jin	yu	taboo language
禁欲主义	jin	yi	asceticism
禁止吸烟	jin	yan	No smoking!
禁止驶入	jin	ru	Do not enter! (road sign)
禁酒令	jin	ling	prohibition; ban on alcohol
禁飞区	jin	qu	no-fly zone
禄丰市	lu	shi	Lufeng, a county-level city in Chuxiong Yi Autonomous Prefecture 楚雄彝族自治州[Chu3 xiong2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
禄劝县	lu	xian	see 祿勸彝族苗族自治縣|禄劝彝族苗族自治县[Lu4 quan4 Yi2 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
禄劝彝族苗族自治县	lu	xian	Luquan Yi and Miao Autonomous County, in Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
禅城区	chan	qu	Chancheng, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
禅门五宗	chan	zong	the five schools of Chan Buddhism
福克兰群岛	fu	dao	Falkland Islands
福克斯	fu	si	Fox (media company); Focus (car manufactured by Ford)
福克纳	fu	na	William Faulkner (1897-1962), American novelist and poet
福利事业	fu	ye	welfare services
福利品	fu	pin	reconditioned or showroom item
福利院	fu	yuan	welfare agency
福如东海	fu	hai	may your happiness be as immense as the East Sea (idiom)
福委会	fu	hui	welfare committee; abbr. for 福利委員會|福利委员会
福安市	fu	shi	Fu'an, a county-level city in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
福寿绵长	fu	chang	good luck and long life
福寿螺	fu	luo	giant Amazon snail (Ampullaria gigas spix) that has devastated rice paddies in China since its introduction in the 1980s
福尔摩斯	fu	si	Sherlock Holmes, 歇洛克·福爾摩斯|歇洛克·福尔摩斯[Xie1 luo4 ke4 · Fu2 er3 mo2 si1]
福尔摩沙	fu	sha	Formosa (Tw)
福尔马林	fu	lin	(loanword) formalin
福山区	fu	qu	Fushan, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
福州市	fu	shi	Fuzhou, prefecture-level city and capital of Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
福布斯	fu	si	Forbes (US publisher); Forbes magazine
福建省	fu	sheng	Fujian Province, capital Fuzhou 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4] (short name 閩|闽[Min3])
福摩萨	fu	sa	Formosa
福斯塔夫	fu	fu	Falstaff (Shakespearian character)
福斯特	fu	te	Foster or Forster (name); Stephen Collins Foster (1826-1864), American composer
福无双至	fu	zhi	(idiom) blessings never come in pairs
福星高照	fu	zhao	lucky star in the ascendant (idiom); a lucky sign
福楼拜	fu	bai	Gustave Flaubert (1821-1880), French realist novelist, author of Madame Bovary
福泉市	fu	shi	Fuquan, a county-level city in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
福泽谕吉	fu	ji	Fukuzawa Yukichi (1835-1901), prominent Japanese Westernizer, liberal educator and founder of Keio University
福海县	fu	xian	Fuhai, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
福清市	fu	shi	Fuqing, a county-level city in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
福特汽车	fu	che	Ford Motor Company
福田区	fu	qu	Futian, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
福田康夫	fu	fu	FUKUDA Yasuo (1936-), Japanese LDP politician, prime minister 2007-2008
福禄贝尔	fu	er	surname Fröbel or Froebel; Friedrich Wilhelm August Fröbel (1782–1852), German pedagogue
福维克	fu	ke	Vorwerk (brand)
福绵区	fu	qu	Fumian, a district of Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
福贡县	fu	xian	Fugong, a county in Nujiang Lisu Autonomous Prefecture 怒江傈僳族自治州[Nu4 jiang1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
福音书	fu	shu	gospel
福马林	fu	lin	(Tw) (loanword) formalin
福鼎市	fu	shi	Fuding, a county-level city in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
禧玛诺	xi	nuo	Shimano (brand)
禹会区	yu	qu	Yuhui, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
禹城市	yu	shi	Yucheng, a county-level city in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
禹州市	yu	shi	Yuzhou, a county-level city in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
禹王台	yu	tai	see 禹王台區|禹王台区[Yu3 wang2 tai2 Qu1]
禹王台区	yu	qu	Yuwangtai, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
离不开	li	kai	inseparable; inevitably linked to
离乡背井	li	jing	to leave one's homeplace (to find work, flee disaster etc)
离合器	li	qi	clutch (mechanics)
离合板	li	ban	clutch pedal
离合词	li	ci	separable word (in Chinese grammar)
离型纸	li	zhi	release paper; release liner
离子交换	li	huan	ion exchange
离子键	li	jian	ionic bond (chemistry)
离家出走	li	zou	to leave home (to live somewhere else)
离岛区	li	qu	Islands District of the New Territories, Hong Kong
离岸价	li	jia	free on board (FOB) (transportation)
离开人世	li	shi	to die; to leave this world
离心分离机	li	ji	centrifuge
离心力	li	li	centrifugal force
离心机	li	ji	centrifuge
离情别绪	li	xu	sad feeling at separation (idiom)
离散性	li	xing	discreteness
离散数学	li	xue	discrete mathematics
离港大厅	li	ting	departure lounge
离石区	li	qu	Lishi, a district of Lüliang City 呂梁市|吕梁市[Lu : 3 liang2 Shi4], Shanxi
离离光光	li	guang	lackluster (look)
离经叛道	li	dao	to rebel against orthodoxy; to depart from established practices
离苦得乐	li	le	to abandon suffering and obtain happiness (Buddhism)
离谱儿	li	r	erhua form of 離譜|离谱[li2 pu3]
禽兽不如	qin	ru	worse than a beast; to behave immorally
禽流感	qin	gan	bird flu; avian influenza
禾木科	he	ke	gramineae (family including bamboo, cereals, rice)
禾本科	he	ke	Graminae or Poaceae, the grass family
秀外惠中	xiu	zhong	variant of 秀外慧中[xiu4 wai4 hui4 zhong1]
秀外慧中	xiu	zhong	good-looking and intelligent (idiom)
秀山县	xiu	xian	Xiushan Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
秀屿区	xiu	qu	Xiuyu, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
秀峰区	xiu	qu	Xiufeng, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
秀恩爱	xiu	ai	to publicly display one's affection for one's partner
秀洲区	xiu	qu	Xiuzhou, a district of Jiaxing City 嘉興市|嘉兴市[Jia1 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
秀珍菇	xiu	gu	oyster mushroom (Pleurotus ostreatus)
秀肌肉	xiu	rou	to flex one's muscles; (fig.) (of a person, country etc) to demonstrate one's strength
秀色可餐	xiu	can	a feast for the eyes (idiom); (of women) gorgeous; graceful
秀色孙鲽	xiu	die	yellowtail
秀英区	xiu	qu	Xiuying, a district of Haikou City 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4], Hainan
私人服务器	si	qi	(gaming) server emulator; private server
私人钥匙	si	shi	private key (in encryption)
私募基金	si	jin	private equity fund; fund offered to private placement (e.g. hedge fund)
私定终身	si	shen	to make a pledge to be married, without parents' approval
私家车	si	che	private car
私底下	si	xia	privately; secretly; confidentially
私房钱	si	qian	secret purse; secret stash of money
私有制	si	zhi	private ownership of property
私有化	si	hua	privatization; to privatize
私生女	si	nv	illegitimate daughter
私生子	si	zi	illegitimate son
私生子女	si	nv	illegitimate child
私生活	si	huo	private life
私立学校	si	xiao	private school
私营企业	si	ye	private business; opposite: state-owned enterprise 國有企業|国有企业[guo2 you3 qi3 ye4]
秃宝盖	tu	gai	name of "cover" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 14); see also 冖[mi4]
秃鼻乌鸦	tu	ya	(bird species of China) rook (Corvus frugilegus)
秉公办理	bing	li	conducting business impartially (idiom); to act justly
秉笔直书	bing	shu	to record faithfully
秋刀鱼	qiu	yu	Pacific saury (Cololabis saira)
秋分点	qiu	dian	the autumn equinox
秋叶原	qiu	yuan	Akihabara, region of downtown Tokyo famous for electronics stores
秋后算帐	qiu	zhang	lit. settle accounts after the autumn harvest (idiom); to wait until the time is ripe to settle accounts; to bide one's time for revenge
秋后算账	qiu	zhang	lit. to settle accounts after autumn (idiom); fig. to settle scores at an opportune time
秋收起义	qiu	yi	Autumn Harvest Uprising (1927), insurrection in Hunan and Jiangxi provinces led by Mao Zedong
秋毫不犯	qiu	fan	see 秋毫無犯|秋毫无犯[qiu1 hao2 wu2 fan4]
秋毫无犯	qiu	fan	(idiom) (of soldiers) highly disciplined, not committing the slightest offense against civilians
秋水仙	qiu	xian	autumn crocus (Colchicum autumnale); meadow saffron
秋水仙碱	qiu	jian	colchicine (a toxic alkaloid used to treat gout)
秋水仙素	qiu	su	colchicine (pharmacy)
秋海棠	qiu	tang	begonia
秋田犬	qiu	quan	Akita (dog breed)
秋老虎	qiu	hu	hot spell during autumn; Indian summer
秋荼密网	qiu	wang	flowering autumn grass, fine net (idiom); fig. abundant and exacting punishments prescribed by law
秋风扫落叶	qiu	ye	lit. as the autumn gale sweeps away the fallen leaves (idiom); to drive out the old and make a clean sweep
秋风过耳	qiu	er	lit. as the autumn breeze passes the ear (idiom); not in the least concerned
秋风送爽	qiu	shuang	the cool autumn breeze (idiom)
秋风飒飒	qiu	sa	the autumn wind is soughing (idiom)
秋高气爽	qiu	shuang	clear and refreshing autumn weather
种公畜	zhong	chu	stud; male breeding stock (of animal species)
种加词	zhong	ci	(biology) specific epithet
种姓制	zhong	zhi	caste system (traditional Indian social division)
种姓制度	zhong	du	caste system
种子岛	zhong	dao	Tanegashima, Japanese Island off Kyushu, the Japanese space launch site
种子植物	zhong	wu	seed plant
种子选手	zhong	shou	seeded player
种小名	zhong	ming	(biology) specific epithet
种族中心主义	zhong	yi	ethnocentrism
种族主义	zhong	yi	racism
种族主义者	zhong	zhe	racist (person)
种族歧视	zhong	shi	racial discrimination; racism
种族清洗	zhong	xi	"ethnic cleansing"; genocide
种族清除	zhong	chu	ethnic cleansing
种族灭绝	zhong	jue	genocide
种族隔离	zhong	li	racial segregation; apartheid
种本名	zhong	ming	(biology) specific epithet
种植业	zhong	ye	plantation
种植体	zhong	ti	implant (dentistry)
种植园	zhong	yuan	plantation
种植牙	zhong	ya	dental implant
种瓜得瓜种豆得豆	zhong	dou	lit. Sow melon and you get melon, sow beans and you get beans (idiom); fig. As you sow, so shall you reap.; One must live with the consequences of one's actions.; You've made your bed, now must lie on it.
科举制	ke	zhi	imperial examination system
科举考试	ke	shi	imperial examinations (in former times)
科什图尼察	ke	cha	surname Kostunica; Vojislav Kostunica (1944-), Serbian politician, last president of Yugoslavia 2000-2003, prime minister of Serbia 2004-2008
科伦坡	ke	po	Colombo, capital of Sri Lanka
科佩尔	ke	er	Koper (port city of Slovenia)
科利奥兰纳斯	ke	si	Coriolanus, 1607 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
科右中旗	ke	qi	Horqin right center banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Dund khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科右前旗	ke	qi	Horqin right front banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Ömnöd khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科威特	ke	te	Kuwait
科学主义	ke	yi	scientism
科学发展观	ke	guan	Scientific Outlook on Development, a guiding principle for the CCP attributed to Hu Jintao 胡錦濤|胡锦涛[Hu2 Jin3 tao1], incorporated into the Constitution of the CCP in 2007
科学史	ke	shi	history of science
科学实验	ke	yan	scientific experiment
科学家	ke	jia	scientist
科学幻想	ke	xiang	science fiction
科学怪人	ke	ren	Frankenstein (novel)
科学执政	ke	zheng	governance based on rationality, evidence and scientific principles
科学技术	ke	shu	science and technology
科学技术现代化	ke	hua	modernization of science and technology, one of Deng Xiaoping's Four Modernizations
科学普及	ke	ji	popularization of science
科学界	ke	jie	world of science; scientific circles
科学知识	ke	shi	scientific knowledge
科学研究	ke	jiu	scientific research
科学管理	ke	li	scientific management
科学编辑	ke	ji	editor of a scientific journal, publication etc
科学育儿	ke	er	scientific parenting
科学院	ke	yuan	academy of sciences; CL:個|个[ge4]
科尔多瓦	ke	wa	Córdoba, Spain
科尔沁	ke	qin	see 科爾沁區|科尔沁区[Ke1 er3 qin4 Qu1]
科尔沁区	ke	qu	Horqin, a district of Tongliao City 通遼市|通辽市[Tong1 liao2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
科尔沁右翼中旗	ke	qi	Horqin right center banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Dund khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科尔沁右翼前旗	ke	qi	Horqin right front banner, Mongolian Khorchin Baruun Garyn Ömnöd khoshuu, in Hinggan league 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 meng2], east Inner Mongolia
科尔沁左翼中旗	ke	qi	Horqin Left Middle banner or Khorchin Züün Garyn Dund khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
科尔沁左翼后旗	ke	qi	Horqin Left Rear banner or Khorchin Züün Garyn Xoit khoshuu in Tongliao 通遼|通辽[Tong1 liao2], Inner Mongolia
科尼赛克	ke	ke	Koenigsegg (car manufacturer)
科布多	ke	duo	Qobto or Kobdo, khanate of outer Mongolia
科幻小说	ke	shuo	science fiction novel
科幻电影	ke	ying	science fiction movie
科托努	ke	nu	Cotonou (city in Benin)
科技人员	ke	yuan	scientific and technical staff
科技工作者	ke	zhe	worker in science and technology
科技惊悚	ke	song	techno-thriller (novel); science fiction thriller
科技惊悚小说	ke	shuo	techno-thriller novel
科技感	ke	gan	high tech feel (of a product etc); the impression that sb's looks are artificial, affected by cosmetic procedures
科技树	ke	shu	tech tree; pattern or sequence of technological development (in gaming or metaphorically in real-world innovation)
科技脸	ke	lian	a face noticeably modified by plastic surgery, botox etc
科摩洛	ke	luo	Comoros
科摩罗	ke	luo	Union of the Comoros
科教兴国	ke	guo	to invigorate the country through science and education
科教片	ke	pian	science education film; popular science movie
科普特人	ke	ren	the Copts, major ethnoreligious group of Egyptian Christians
科普特语	ke	yu	Coptic, Afro-Asiatic language of the Copts 科普特人[Ke1 pu3 te4 ren2], spoken in Egypt until late 17th century
科林斯	ke	si	Corinth, a city-state of ancient Greece; Corinth, a modern city in Greece; (name) Collins
科泽科德	ke	de	old Chinese name for Calicut, town on Arabian sea in Kerala, India; now called 卡利卡特
科特布斯	ke	si	Cottbus (city in Germany)
科特迪瓦	ke	wa	Côte d'Ivoire or Ivory Coast in West Africa
科特迪瓦共和国	ke	guo	Republic of Côte d'Ivoire
科研人员	ke	yuan	(scientific) researcher
科研小组	ke	zu	a scientific research group
科研样机	ke	ji	research prototype
科索沃	ke	wo	Kosovo
科纳克里	ke	li	Conakry, capital of Guinea
科罗娜	ke	na	Corona (beer)
科罗恩病	ke	bing	Krohn's disease
科罗拉多	ke	duo	Colorado
科罗拉多大峡谷	ke	gu	the Grand Canyon (Colorado)
科罗拉多州	ke	zhou	Colorado
科罗纳	ke	na	Corona; Colonna
科考队	ke	dui	scientific exploration team; expedition
科茨沃尔德	ke	de	the Cotswolds (England)
科莫多龙	ke	long	Komodo dragon (Varanus komodoensis)
科西嘉岛	ke	dao	Corsica (Island located west of Italy and southeast of France)
科迪勒拉	ke	la	Cordillera, series of mountain ranges stretching from Patagonia in South America through to Alaska and Aleutian Islands
科迪勒拉山系	ke	xi	Cordillera, series of mountain ranges stretching from Patagonia in South America through to Alaska and Aleutian islands
科隆水	ke	shui	cologne
科隆群岛	ke	dao	Galapagos Islands
秒差距	miao	ju	parsec (astronomy)
秒秒钟	miao	zhong	in a matter of seconds; swiftly; rapidly
秘书处	mi	chu	secretariat
秘书长	mi	zhang	secretary-general
秘密会社	mi	she	a secret society
秘密基地	mi	di	hideaway; private or insider-only place
秘密活动	mi	dong	clandestine activities; covert operation
秘密警察	mi	cha	secret police
秘而不宣	mi	xuan	to withhold information; to keep sth secret
秘鲁苦蘵	bi	zhi	Peruvian ground-cherry; cape gooseberry; Physalis peruviana
租借地	zu	di	concession (territory)
秤砣虽小压千斤	cheng	jin	although small, a steelyard weight may tip a hundred pounds (idiom); apparently insignificant details can have a large impact; for want of a nail the battle was lost
秦二世	qin	shi	Qin Ershi (229-207 BC), second Qin emperor
秦吉了	qin	liao	mythical talking bird; mynah bird
秦城监狱	qin	yu	Qincheng Prison, maximum-security prison located about 30 km north of central Beijing, whose inmates include former high-level officials convicted of corruption
秦始皇	qin	huang	Qin Shihuang (259-210 BC), the first emperor
秦始皇帝	qin	di	the First Emperor 259-210 BC
秦始皇帝陵	qin	ling	the mausoleum of the First Emperor near Xi'an
秦始皇陵	qin	ling	the tomb of the first emperor at Mt Li 驪山|骊山[Li2 shan1] near Xi'an (awaits excavation)
秦孝公	qin	gong	Duke Xiao of Qin, 秦國|秦国[Qin2 guo2], ruled 361-338 BC during the Warring States Period
秦安县	qin	xian	Qin'an, a county in Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
秦岭山脉	qin	mai	Qinling Mountain Range in Shaanxi, forming a natural barrier between the Guanzhong Plain 關中平原|关中平原[Guan1 zhong1 Ping2 yuan2] and the Han River 漢水|汉水[Han4 shui3] valley
秦岭蜀栈道	qin	dao	the Qinling plank road to Shu, a historical mountain road from Shaanxi to Sichuan
秦州区	qin	qu	Qinzhou, a district of Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
秦惠文王	qin	wang	King Huiwen of Qin 秦國|秦国, ruled 338-311 BC during the Warring States Period
秦淮八艳	qin	yan	the famous eight beautiful and talented courtesans who lived near the Qinhuai River 秦淮河[Qin2 huai2 He2] in the late Ming or early Qing
秦淮区	qin	qu	Qinhuai, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
秦淮河	qin	he	Qinhuai River, a tributary of the Yangtze that flows through central Nanjing
秦皇岛	qin	dao	see 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4]
秦皇岛市	qin	shi	Qinhuangdao, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
秦穆公	qin	gong	Duke Mu of Qin, the first substantial king of Qin (ruled 659-621 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
秦越人	qin	ren	Qin Yueren (407-310 BC), Warring States physician known for his medical skills
秦都区	qin	qu	Qindu, a district of Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
秦镜高悬	qin	xuan	see 明鏡高懸|明镜高悬[ming2 jing4 gao1 xuan2]
秦韬玉	qin	yu	Qin Taoyu, Tang poet, author of the poem "A Poor Woman" 貧女|贫女[Pin2 nu : 3]
秧歌剧	yang	ju	Yangge opera, a rural form of theater
秩序井然	zhi	ran	in perfect order
秩序美	zhi	mei	order (as an aesthetic quality)
秭归县	zi	xian	Zigui, a county in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
积不相能	ji	neng	(idiom) always at loggerheads; never able to agree with sb; unable to get on with sb
积习成俗	ji	su	accumulated habits become custom
积习难改	ji	gai	old habits are hard to change (idiom)
积于忽微	ji	wei	to accumulate tiny quantities (idiom)
积代会	ji	hui	(Cultural Revolution term) conference of activist representatives (abbr. for 積極分子代表大會|积极分子代表大会[ji1 ji2 fen4 zi3 dai4 biao3 da4 hui4])
积体电路	ji	lu	(Tw) integrated circuit
积分变换	ji	huan	integral transform (math.)
积分学	ji	xue	integral calculus
积分常数	ji	shu	constant of integration (math.)
积分方程	ji	cheng	integral equation (math.)
积分榜	ji	bang	table of scores (in exams or sports league)
积劳成疾	ji	ji	to accumulate work causes sickness (idiom); to fall ill from constant overwork
积厚流广	ji	guang	deep rooted and influential
积土成山	ji	shan	lit. piling up dirt eventually creates a mountain (idiom); fig. success is the cumulation of lots of small actions
积少成多	ji	duo	(idiom) many little things add up to sth great; many little drops make an ocean
积年累月	ji	yue	year in, year out (idiom); (over) many years
积德累功	ji	gong	to accumulate merit and virtue
积恶余殃	ji	yang	Accumulated evil will be repaid in suffering (idiom).
积极分子	ji	zi	active supporter; political activist
积极反应	ji	ying	active response; energetic response
积极性	ji	xing	zeal; initiative; enthusiasm
积极进取	ji	qu	proactive
积沙成塔	ji	ta	see 聚沙成塔[ju4 sha1 cheng2 ta3]
积石山	ji	shan	see 積石山保安族東鄉族撒拉族自治縣|积石山保安族东乡族撒拉族自治县[Ji1 shi2 shan1 Bao3 an1 zu2 Dong1 xiang1 zu2 Sa1 la1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
积石山县	ji	xian	see 積石山保安族東鄉族撒拉族自治縣|积石山保安族东乡族撒拉族自治县[Ji1 shi2 shan1 Bao3 an1 zu2 Dong1 xiang1 zu2 Sa1 la1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
积累性	ji	xing	cumulative
积累毒性	ji	xing	cumulative poison
积草屯粮	ji	liang	(idiom) to stockpile provisions in preparation for war
积薪厝火	ji	huo	to add fuel to the flames
积谷防饥	ji	ji	storing grain against a famine; to lay sth by for a rainy day; also written 積穀防飢|积谷防饥
积重难返	ji	fan	ingrained habits are hard to overcome (idiom); bad old practices die hard
积金累玉	ji	yu	to accumulate gold and jewels (idiom); prosperous
积阴德必有阳报	ji	bao	(saying) doing good deeds in secret will eventually bring rewards
积雨云	ji	yun	cumulonimbus (cloud)
积雪场	ji	chang	snowpack
积非成是	ji	shi	a wrong repeated becomes right (idiom); a lie or an error passed on for a long time may be taken for the truth
称之为	cheng	wei	to call it...; known as...
称多县	chen	xian	Chindu, a county in Yushu Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 玉樹藏族自治州|玉树藏族自治州[Yu4 shu4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
称得上	cheng	shang	can be counted as
称心如意	chen	yi	(idiom) after one's own heart; gratifying; satisfactory; everything one could wish
移动平均线	yi	xian	moving average (in financial analysis)
移动式	yi	shi	mobile
移动式电话	yi	hua	mobile telephone
移动性	yi	xing	mobility
移动电源	yi	yuan	power bank; portable charger
移动电话	yi	hua	mobile telephone
移动硬盘	yi	pan	portable hard drive; external hard drive
移动设备	yi	bei	mobile device (smartphone, tablet, etc)
移山倒海	yi	hai	lit. to move mountains and drain seas; to transform nature
移山志	yi	zhi	the will to move mountains; fig. high ambitions
移情别恋	yi	lian	change of affection, shift of love (idiom); to change one's feelings to another love; to fall in love with sb else
移植性	yi	xing	portability
移植手术	yi	shu	(organ) transplant operation
移民局	yi	ju	immigration office
移民工	yi	gong	migrant worker
移民者	yi	zhe	migrant; immigrant
移液器	yi	qi	pipette
移液管	yi	guan	pipette
移花接木	yi	mu	(lit.) to graft flowers onto a tree (idiom); (fig.) to surreptitiously substitute one thing for another
移送法办	yi	ban	to bring to justice; to hand over to the law
移风易俗	yi	su	(idiom) to reform habits and customs
稀哩哗啦	xi	la	variant of 稀里嘩啦|稀里哗啦[xi1 li5 hua1 la1]
稀土元素	xi	su	rare earth element (chemistry)
稀土金属	xi	shu	rare earth element
稀奇古怪	xi	guai	(idiom) crazy; bizarre; weird; fantastic; strange
稀巴烂	xi	lan	smashed up; broken into pieces
稀有元素	xi	su	(chemistry) rare element
稀有气体	xi	ti	rare gas; noble gas (chemistry)
稀松平常	xi	chang	nothing special; ordinary
稀松骨质	xi	zhi	cancellous bone; trabecular bone; spongy bone
稀稀拉拉	xi	la	sparse and fragmentary
稀里光当	xi	dang	thin; diluted
稀里哗啦	xi	la	(onom.) chaotic or dynamic noises (pattering, crashing, rustling, clattering, sobbing etc); smashed to pieces; completely routed
稀里糊涂	xi	tu	muddleheaded; careless
程不识	cheng	shi	Cheng Bushi, Han dynasty general
程咬金	cheng	jin	Cheng Yaojin (589-665), aka 程知節|程知节[Cheng2 Zhi1 jie2], Chinese general of the Tang dynasty
程序员	cheng	yuan	programmer
程序库	cheng	ku	program library (computing)
程序性	cheng	xing	program
程序法	cheng	fa	procedural law
程序猿	cheng	yuan	(Internet slang) code monkey
程序码	cheng	ma	source code (computing)
程序设计	cheng	ji	computer programming
程式员	cheng	yuan	(Tw) programmer
程式师	cheng	shi	(Tw) programmer
程式码	cheng	ma	source code (computing) (Tw)
程式语言	cheng	yan	programming language (Tw)
程控交换机	cheng	ji	electronic switching system (telecom.); stored program control exchange (SPC)
程控电话	cheng	hua	automatic telephone exchange
程海湖	cheng	hu	Chenghai Lake in Lijiang 麗江市|丽江市, Hunan
程砚秋	cheng	qiu	Cheng Yanqiu (1904-1958), famous Beijing opera star, second only to 梅蘭芳|梅兰芳[Mei2 Lan2 fang1]
程门立雪	cheng	xue	lit. the snow piles up at Cheng Yi's door (idiom); fig. deep reverence for one's master
稍安勿躁	shao	zao	variant of 少安毋躁[shao3 an1 wu2 zao4]
稍安毋躁	shao	zao	variant of 少安毋躁[shao3 an1 wu2 zao4]
稍快板	shao	ban	allegretto
稍早时	shao	shi	a little earlier
稍纵即逝	shao	shi	transient; fleeting
税务局	shui	ju	Tax Bureau; Inland Revenue Department (Hong Kong)
税捐稽征处	shui	chu	Taipei Revenue Service (tax office)
稗官野史	bai	shi	(idiom) unofficial history; anecdotal historical account
稚气未脱	zhi	tuo	still possessing the innocence of childhood (idiom)
稳中求进	wen	jin	to make progress while ensuring stability
稳压二极管	wen	guan	Zener diode
稳坐钓鱼台	wen	tai	lit. to sit tight on the fishing terrace despite the storm (idiom); fig. to stay calm in a tense situation
稳如泰山	wen	shan	steady as Mt Tai; as safe as houses
稳定塘	wen	tang	waste stabilization pond
稳定币	wen	bi	stablecoin
稳定度	wen	du	degree of stability
稳定性	wen	xing	stability
稳态理论	wen	lun	the steady-state theory (cosmology)
稳恒态	wen	tai	steady state; stable and permanent attitude
稳扎稳打	wen	da	to go steady and strike hard (in fighting); fig. steadily and surely
稳操胜券	wen	quan	grasp it and victory is assured; to have success within one's grasp (idiom)
稳操胜算	wen	suan	to be assured of success
稷山县	ji	xian	Jishan, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
稻城县	dao	xian	Daocheng, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
稻田苇莺	dao	ying	(bird species of China) paddyfield warbler (Acrocephalus agricola)
稻田鹨	dao	liu	(bird species of China) paddyfield pipit (Anthus rufulus)
稻草人	dao	ren	scarecrow
稻荷寿司	dao	si	inarizushi (pouch of fried tofu typically filled with rice)
稽古振今	ji	jin	studying the old to promote the new (idiom)
稽查人员	ji	yuan	inspector
稽查员	ji	yuan	inspector; ticket inspector
穆加贝	mu	bei	Robert Mugabe (1924-2019), Zimbabwean ZANU-PF politician, president of Zimbabwe 1987-2017
穆勒鞋	mu	xie	mule shoes (loanword)
穆夫提	mu	ti	(Islam) mufti (loanword from Arabic)
穆尔西	mu	xi	Morsi, Mursi or Morsy (name); Mohamed Morsi (1951-2019), Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood politician, president of Egypt 2012-2013
穆巴拉克	mu	ke	Hosni Mubarak (1928-2020), former Egyptian President and military commander
穆斯林	mu	lin	Muslim
穆桂英	mu	ying	Mu Guiying, female warrior and heroine of the Yang Saga 楊家將|杨家将
穆棱市	mu	shi	Muling, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
穆沙拉夫	mu	fu	Pervez Musharraf (1943-), Pakistani general and politician, president 2001-2008
穆索尔斯基	mu	ji	Modest Mussorgsky (1839-1881), Russian composer, composer of Pictures at an Exhibition
穆罕默德	mu	de	Muhammad (c. 570–632), central figure of Islam and prophet of God
穆罕默德六世	mu	shi	King Mohammed VI of Morocco (1963–)
穆萨维	mu	wei	Moussavi, Mir Hussein (1941-), candidate in Iran's disputed 2009 elections
穴居人	xue	ren	cave man
究其根源	jiu	yuan	to trace something to its source (idiom)
穷乡僻壤	qiong	rang	a remote and desolate place
穷二代	qiong	dai	those who did not benefit from the Chinese economic reforms of the 1980s; see also 富二代[fu4 er4 dai4]
穷于应付	qiong	fu	to struggle to cope (with a situation); to be at one's wits' end
穷光蛋	qiong	dan	poor wretch; pauper; destitute man
穷兵黩武	qiong	wu	to engage in wars of aggression at will (idiom); militaristic; bellicose
穷凶极恶	qiong	e	fiendish; black-hearted
穷则思变	qiong	bian	(idiom) when you hit bottom, you have to come up with a new approach
穷困潦倒	qiong	dao	(idiom) to live in poverty and despair; down and out; destitute and without hope
穷奢极侈	qiong	chi	extravagant in the extreme (idiom)
穷奢极欲	qiong	yu	to indulge in a life of luxury (idiom); extreme extravagance
穷家富路	qiong	lu	(idiom) at home be frugal, but when traveling be prepared to spend
穷家薄业	qiong	ye	lit. poor and with few means of subsistance (idiom); fig. destitute
穷山恶水	qiong	shui	lit. barren hills and wild rivers (idiom); fig. inhospitable natural environment
穷当益坚	qiong	jian	poor but ambitious (idiom); hard-pressed but determined; the worse one's position, the harder one must fight back
穷忙族	qiong	zu	the working poor
穷思苦想	qiong	xiang	to think hard (idiom); to give sth much thought
穷愁潦倒	qiong	dao	impoverished and dejected; wretched and penniless
穷棒子	qiong	zi	poor but spirited person; (old) (derog.) peasant
穷竭法	qiong	fa	Archimedes' method of exhaustion (an early form of integral calculus)
穷追不舍	qiong	she	to pursue relentlessly
穷途末路	qiong	lu	lit. the path exhausted, the end of the road (idiom); an impasse; in a plight with no way out; things have reached a dead end
穷酸相	qiong	xiang	wretched look; shabby looks
穷鼠啮狸	qiong	li	a desperate rat will bite the fox (idiom); the smallest worm will turn being trodden on
空中交通管制	kong	zhi	air traffic control
空中交通管制员	kong	yuan	air traffic controller
空中分列	kong	lie	(military) flyover
空中劫持	kong	chi	to hijack (a plane); aircraft hijacking; skyjacking
空中客车	kong	che	Airbus (aerospace company)
空中小姐	kong	jie	stewardess; air hostess
空中少爷	kong	ye	airline steward
空中接力	kong	li	alley-oop (basketball)
空中格斗	kong	dou	dogfight (of planes)
空中楼阁	kong	ge	pavilion in the air (idiom); unrealistic Utopian construction; castles in Spain; imaginary future plans
空中炮舰	kong	jian	gunship (aircraft)
空中花园	kong	yuan	hanging gardens (Babylon etc); rooftop garden
空中飘浮	kong	fu	to float in the air
空中飞人	kong	ren	trapeze artist; frequent flyer
空军一号	kong	hao	Air Force One, US presidential jet
空军基地	kong	di	air base
空前绝后	kong	hou	unprecedented and never to be duplicated; the first and the last; unmatched
空包弹	kong	dan	blank cartridge
空口无凭	kong	ping	mere verbal statement cannot be taken as proof (idiom)
空口白话	kong	hua	empty promises
空口说白话	kong	hua	to make empty promises
空地导弹	kong	dan	air-to-surface missile
空城计	kong	ji	the empty city stratagem (in which Zhuge Liang presents himself as unperturbed while making it evident that his city is undefended, hoping his adversary will suspect an ambush); double bluff
空壳公司	kong	si	shell company; shell corporation
空头市场	kong	chang	bear market
空头支票	kong	piao	bounced check; bad check; (idiom) empty promise
空室清野	kong	ye	empty room, clean field (idiom); clean out everything to leave nothing for the enemy; scorched earth policy
空对地	kong	di	air-to-surface (missile)
空对空导弹	kong	dan	air-to-air missile
空心儿	kong	r	erhua variant of 空心[kong4 xin1]
空心墙	kong	qiang	cavity wall; hollow wall
空心大老官	kong	guan	fake important personage; sham
空心球	kong	qiu	hollow ball; (basketball) swish shot
空心菜	kong	cai	water spinach; kangkung
空心萝卜	kong	bo	useless person
空心面	kong	mian	macaroni
空想家	kong	jia	impractical dreamer
空想性错视	kong	shi	pareidolia
空想社会主义	kong	yi	utopian socialism
空房间	kong	jian	vacant room
空手套白狼	kong	lang	(coll.) to make big gains without putting in effort or resources
空手而归	kong	gui	to return empty-handed; to fail to win anything
空手道	kong	dao	karate
空拍机	kong	ji	drone equipped for aerial photography
空无一人	kong	ren	not a soul in sight (idiom)
空无所有	kong	you	having nothing (idiom); utterly destitute; without two sticks to rub together
空服员	kong	yuan	flight attendant; cabin crew
空格键	kong	jian	space bar (keyboard)
空气净化器	kong	qi	air purifier
空气凤梨	kong	li	air plant (genus Tillandsia 鐵蘭屬|铁兰属[tie3 lan2 shu3])
空气动力	kong	li	aerodynamic force
空气动力学	kong	xue	aerodynamics
空气取样器	kong	qi	air sampler
空气污染	kong	ran	air pollution
空气流	kong	liu	flow of air; draft
空气流通	kong	tong	ventilation; air circulation
空气炸锅	kong	guo	air fryer
空气调节	kong	jie	air conditioning
空气调节器	kong	qi	(formal) air conditioner
空气阻力	kong	li	atmospheric drag
空洞无物	kong	wu	empty cave, nothing there (idiom); devoid of substance; nothing new to show
空洞洞	kong	dong	empty; deserted
空白支票	kong	piao	blank check
空白点	kong	dian	gap; empty space
空着手	kong	shou	empty-handed
空穴来风	kong	feng	lit. wind from an empty cave (idiom); fig. unfounded (story); baseless (claim)
空穴来风未必无因	kong	yin	wind does not come from an empty cave without reason; there's no smoke without fire (idiom)
空空如也	kong	ye	as empty as anything (idiom); completely bereft; to have nothing; vacuous
空空导弹	kong	dan	air-to-air missile
空空洞洞	kong	dong	empty; hollow; lacking in substance
空空荡荡	kong	dang	deserted
空窗期	kong	qi	window period (time between infection and the appearance of detectable antibodies); period during which sth is lacking (boyfriend or girlfriend, work, revenue, production of a commodity etc); lull
空腹高心	kong	xin	ambitious despite a lack of talent (idiom)
空荡荡	kong	dang	empty; deserted
空落落	kong	luo	empty; desolate
空话连篇	kong	pian	long-winded empty talk
空调房	kong	fang	air-conditioned room
空调病	kong	bing	adverse effects caused by prolonged air-conditioning exposure, including dizziness, headaches, fatigue or chest tightness
空调车	kong	che	air conditioned vehicle
空谷足音	kong	yin	(lit.) the sound of footsteps in a deserted valley (idiom); (fig.) sth hard to come by; sth wonderful and rare
空跑一趟	kong	tang	to make a journey for nothing
空运费	kong	fei	air freight (cost of air transport)
空间局	kong	ju	space agency
空间探测	kong	ce	space exploration
空间探测器	kong	qi	space probe
空间站	kong	zhan	space station
空降兵	kong	bing	paratrooper; airborne troops
穿一条裤子	chuan	zi	(of male friends) to have been through thick and thin together; to be like family; to share the same view of things
穿凿附会	chuan	hui	(idiom) to make far-fetched claims; to offer outlandish explanations
穿堂风	chuan	feng	draft
穿小鞋	chuan	xie	to have one's life made difficult by sb (usu. by sb in a position of authority) (lit. to be made to wear tight shoes)
穿山甲	chuan	jia	pangolin (Manis pentadactylata); scaly ant-eater
穿着打扮	chuan	ban	style of dress; one's appearance
穿着讲究	chuan	jiu	smart clothes; particular about one's dress
穿衣镜	chuan	jing	full-length mirror
穿越剧	chuan	ju	time-travel drama
穿越时空	chuan	kong	to travel through time
穿越机	chuan	ji	FPV drone; drone piloted through a live video feed
穿透辐射	chuan	she	penetrating radiation
穿金戴银	chuan	yin	richly bedecked; dripping with gold and silver (idiom)
穿针引线	chuan	xian	lit. to thread a needle (idiom); fig. to act as a go-between
穿针走线	chuan	xian	to thread a needle
突击检查	tu	cha	sudden unannounced investigation; on-the-spot inspection; to search without notification
突击步枪	tu	qiang	assault rifle
突击队	tu	dui	commando unit
突击队员	tu	yuan	commando
突厥斯坦	tu	tan	Turkestan
突发事件	tu	jian	emergency; sudden occurrence
突发奇想	tu	xiang	suddenly have a thought (idiom); suddenly be inspired to do something
突变株	tu	zhu	mutant; mutant strain (of virus)
突变理论	tu	lun	(math.) catastrophe theory
突如其来	tu	lai	to arise abruptly; to arrive suddenly; happening suddenly
突尼斯	tu	si	Tunisia; Tunis, capital of Tunisia
突尼斯市	tu	shi	Tunis, capital of Tunisia
突尼西亚	tu	ya	Tunisia (Tw)
突泉县	tu	xian	Tuquan, a county in Hinggan League 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
突然间	tu	jian	suddenly
突破口	tu	kou	breach; gap; breakthrough point
突破性	tu	xing	groundbreaking
突破点	tu	dian	point of penetration (military); breakthrough
突破瓶颈	tu	jing	to make a breakthrough
突触后	tu	hou	postsynaptic
突起部	tu	bu	bit sticking out; projection
突飞猛进	tu	jin	to advance by leaps and bounds
窃听器	qie	qi	tapping device; bug
窃国者侯窃钩者诛	qie	zhu	steal the whole country and they make you a prince, steal a hook and they hang you (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
窃窃私议	qie	yi	(idiom) to discuss sth quietly in private
窃窃私语	qie	yu	(idiom) to whisper; to speak in whispers
窃蛋龙	qie	long	oviraptorosaurus (egg-stealing dinosaur)
窃钩者诛窃国者侯	qie	hou	steal a hook and they hang you, steal the whole country and they make you a prince (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3])
窍门儿	qiao	r	erhua form of 竅門|窍门[qiao4 men2]
窑姐儿	yao	r	erhua variant of 窯姐|窑姐[yao2 jie3]
窒息性毒剂	zhi	ji	choking agent
窗口期	chuang	qi	window (interval of time); (epidemiology) window period
窗户棂	chuang	ling	window lattice
窗明几净	chuang	jing	lit. clear window and clean table (idiom); fig. bright and clean
窗棂子	chuang	zi	window lattice
窗玻璃	chuang	li	window pane
窝囊废	wo	fei	(coll.) spineless coward; wimp; a good-for-nothing
窝囊气	wo	qi	pent-up frustration; petty annoyances
窝囊费	wo	fei	(slang) hard-earned wages (pun on 窩囊廢|窝囊废[wo1 nang5 fei4])
窝窝头	wo	tou	a kind of a bread
窝脓包	wo	bao	useless weakling
窝脖儿	wo	r	to suffer a snub; to meet with a rebuff
窝里反	wo	fan	see 窩裡鬥|窝里斗[wo1 li5 dou4]
窝里斗	wo	dou	internal strife (family, group, etc)
窝里横	wo	heng	(coll.) meek and civil in public, but a tyrant at home
窝阔台	wo	tai	Ögedei Khan (1186-1242), a son of Genghis Khan
窝阔台汗	wo	han	Ögedei Khan (1186-1242), a son of Genghis Khan
窟窿眼	ku	yan	small hole
窥豹一斑	kui	ban	lit. see one spot on a leopard (idiom); fig. a restricted view
窦娥冤	dou	yuan	The Injustice to Dou E (popular drama by 關漢卿|关汉卿[Guan1 Han4 qing1])
窦性心律	dou	lv	(medicine) sinus rhythm
窦房结	dou	jie	(anatomy) sinoatrial node; sinuatrial node
窨井盖	yin	gai	manhole cover
立交桥	li	qiao	overpass; flyover
立体书	li	shu	pop-up book
立体交叉	li	cha	three-dimensional road junction (i.e. involving flyover bridges or underpass tunnels); overpass
立体几何	li	he	solid geometry
立体图	li	tu	three-dimensional figure; hologram; stereogram
立体声	li	sheng	stereophonic sound
立体异构	li	gou	stereoisomerism (chemistry)
立体异构体	li	ti	stereoisomer (chemistry)
立体摄像机	li	ji	stereoscopic camera; 3D camera
立体派	li	pai	Cubism
立体照片	li	pian	three-dimensional photo
立体电影院	li	yuan	stereoscopic cinema; 3D cinema
立体角	li	jiao	solid angle
立克次体	li	ti	Rickettsia (genus of intracellular parasitic bacteria)
立军功	li	gong	to render meritorious military service
立刀旁	li	pang	name of the lateral "knife" radical 刂[dao1] in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 18), occurring in 到[dao4], 利[li4], 別|别[bie2] etc
立功赎罪	li	zui	to redeem oneself; to atone
立卧撑跳	li	tiao	burpee
立可白	li	bai	correction fluid (loanword from "Liquid Paper") (Tw)
立地成佛	li	fo	to become a Buddha on the spot (idiom); instant rehabilitation; to repent and be absolved of one's crimes
立委选举	li	ju	legislative elections
立定跳远	li	yuan	standing long jump
立山区	li	qu	Lishan, a district of Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
立方体	li	ti	cube; cubic
立方公尺	li	chi	(Tw) cubic meter (m³)
立方厘米	li	mi	cubic centimeter
立方根	li	gen	(math.) cube root
立方米	li	mi	cubic meter (m³)
立案侦查	li	cha	to file for investigation; to prosecute (a case)
立氏立克次体	li	ti	Rickettsia rickettsii
立法会	li	hui	legislative council; LegCo (Hong Kong)
立法委员	li	yuan	member of the Legislative Yuan (Tw)
立法委员会	li	hui	legislative committee
立法机关	li	guan	legislature
立法院	li	yuan	Legislative Yuan, the unicameral legislature of the Republic of China
立百病毒	li	du	Nipah virus
立竿见影	li	ying	(lit.) set up a pole and immediately see its shadow (idiom); (fig.) to get instant results
立足点	li	dian	foothold
立身处世	li	shi	(idiom) the way one conducts oneself in society
立陶宛	li	wan	Lithuania
立陶宛人	li	ren	Lithuanian (person)
立面图	li	tu	elevation (architectural drawing)
竖中指	shu	zhi	to give the middle finger
竖弯钩	shu	gou	乚 stroke in Chinese characters
竖起大拇指	shu	zhi	to give a thumbs-up; to express one's approval
竖起耳朵	shu	duo	to prick up one's ears; to strain to hear sth
站不住脚	zhan	jiao	ill-founded; groundless
站军姿	zhan	zi	to stand at attention (military)
站前区	zhan	qu	Zhanqian, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
站着说话不腰疼	zhan	teng	(saying) it's all very well to talk, but getting things done is another matter; (fig.) to be an armchair expert; to blabber on
站稳脚步	zhan	bu	to gain a firm foothold; (fig.) to get oneself established
站稳脚跟	zhan	gen	to stand firmly; to gain a foothold; to establish oneself
站街女	zhan	nv	streetwalker
站起来	zhan	lai	to stand up
竞业条款	jing	kuan	non-compete clause (law)
竞争产品	jing	pin	competing product; competitor's product
竞争力	jing	li	competitive strength; competitiveness
竞争对手	jing	shou	rival; competitor
竞争性	jing	xing	competitive
竞争模式	jing	shi	competition model
竞争者	jing	zhe	competitor
竞技动物	jing	wu	animals used in blood sports
竞技场	jing	chang	arena
竞技性	jing	xing	competitive
竞秀区	jing	qu	Jingxiu, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
竞赛者	jing	zhe	player
竞选副手	jing	shou	election assistant; running mate
竞选搭档	jing	dang	election partner; running mate
竞选活动	jing	dong	(election) campaign
竞速滑冰	jing	bing	speed skating (Tw)
章丘区	zhang	qu	Zhangqiu, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
章回小说	zhang	shuo	novel in chapters, main format for long novels from the Ming onwards, with each chapter headed by a summary couplet
章士钊	zhang	zhao	Zhang Shizhao (1881-1973), revolutionary journalist in Shanghai, then established writer
章太炎	zhang	yan	Zhang Taiyan (1869-1936), scholar, journalist, revolutionary and leading intellectual around the time of the Xinhai revolution
章子怡	zhang	yi	Zhang Ziyi (1979-), PRC actress
章炳麟	zhang	lin	Zhang Taiyan 章太炎 (1869-1936), scholar, journalist, revolutionary and leading intellectual around the time of the Xinhai revolution
章甫荐履	zhang	lv	court crown beneath straw shoe (idiom); everything turned upside down
章贡区	zhang	qu	Zhanggong, a district of Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
章鱼小丸子	zhang	zi	takoyaki (octopus dumpling), a Japanese snack food
章鱼烧	zhang	shao	takoyaki (octopus dumpling), a Japanese snack food
童养媳	tong	xi	child bride; girl adopted into a family as future daughter-in-law
童养媳妇	tong	fu	child bride; girl adopted into a family as future daughter-in-law
童叟无欺	tong	qi	cheating neither old nor young (idiom); treating youngsters and old folk equally scrupulously; Our house offers sincere treatment to all and fair trade to old and young alike.
童子军	tong	jun	Scout (youth organization)
童子尿	tong	niao	urine of boys under 12, used as medicine (TCM)
童山濯濯	tong	zhuo	treeless hill; (fig.) bald head
童心未泯	tong	min	(idiom) still a child at heart; to retain a playful spirit
童花头	tong	tou	short bobbed hairstyle
童言无忌	tong	ji	children's words carry no harm (idiom)
童话故事	tong	shi	fairy tale
竭尽全力	jie	li	(idiom) to spare no effort; to do one's utmost
竭泽而渔	jie	yu	lit. to drain the pond to get at the fish (idiom); fig. to kill the goose that lays the golden eggs
端到端	duan	duan	end-to-end
端到端加密	duan	mi	end-to-end encryption
端午节	duan	jie	Dragon Boat Festival (5th day of the 5th lunar month)
端州区	duan	qu	Duanzhou, a district of Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
端木赐	duan	ci	Duanmu Ci (520 BC-446 BC), disciple of Confucius, also known as Zi Gong 子貢|子贡[Zi3 Gong4]
端架子	duan	zi	to put on airs
端粒酶	duan	mei	telomerase
端系统	duan	tong	end system
端阳节	duan	jie	see 端午節|端午节[Duan1 wu3 jie2]
竹丝鸡	zhu	ji	black-boned chicken; silky fowl; silkie
竹书纪年	zhu	nian	Bamboo Annals, early chronicle of Chinese ancient history, written c. 300 BC
竹北市	zhu	shi	Zhubei, a city in Hsinchu County 新竹縣|新竹县[Xin1 zhu2 Xian4], northwest Taiwan
竹叶青	zhu	qing	Trimeresurus stejnegeri (poisonous snake)
竹叶青蛇	zhu	she	Trimeresurus stejnegeri (poisonous snake)
竹啄木鸟	zhu	niao	(bird species of China) pale-headed woodpecker (Gecinulus grantia)
竹山县	zhu	xian	Zhushan, a county in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
竹溪县	zhu	xian	Zhuxi, a county in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
竹筒倒豆子	zhu	zi	like beans pouring out of a bamboo tube (metaphor for blurting everything out at once)
竹箍儿	zhu	r	bamboo hoop; bamboo band
竹篮打水	zhu	shui	using a wicker basket to draw water (idiom); wasted effort
竹篮打水一场空	zhu	kong	using a wicker basket to draw water (idiom); wasted effort
竹篱笆	zhu	ba	fence
竹节草	zhu	cao	Mackie's pest; lovegrass (Chrysopogon aciculatus)
竹节虫	zhu	chong	walking stick; stick insect
竹马之交	zhu	jiao	childhood friend (idiom)
竹马之友	zhu	you	see 竹馬之交|竹马之交[zhu2 ma3 zhi1 jiao1]
竺可桢	zhu	zhen	Zhu Kezhen (1890-1974), Chinese metereologist and geologist
笃信好学	du	xue	sincere belief and diligent study
笆篱子	ba	zi	(dialect) prison
笑不可仰	xiao	yang	to double up with laughter (idiom)
笑不可抑	xiao	yi	to laugh irrepressibly
笑口弥勒	xiao	le	laughing Maitreya
笑吟吟	xiao	yin	smiling; with a smile
笑哈哈	xiao	ha	to laugh heartily
笑嘻嘻	xiao	xi	grinning; smiling
笑容可掬	xiao	ju	smiling wholeheartedly (idiom); beaming from ear to ear
笑掉大牙	xiao	ya	to laugh one's head off; ridiculous; jaw-dropping
笑料百出	xiao	chu	entertaining; hilarious
笑点低	xiao	di	amused by even the weakest joke; ready to laugh at the smallest thing
笑盈盈	xiao	ying	smilingly; to be all smiles
笑眯眯	xiao	mi	beaming; all smiles
笑破肚皮	xiao	pi	to split one's sides laughing
笑而不语	xiao	yu	to smile but say nothing
笑脸儿	xiao	r	erhua variant of 笑臉|笑脸[xiao4 lian3]
笑脸相迎	xiao	ying	to welcome sb with a smiling face (idiom)
笑话儿	xiao	r	erhua form of 笑話|笑话[xiao4 hua5]
笑贫不笑娼	xiao	chang	the notion in society that it's better to get ahead in the world by abandoning one's scruples than to suffer poverty; lit. despising poverty but not prostitution (idiom)
笑逐颜开	xiao	kai	smile spread across the face (idiom); beaming with pleasure; all smiles; joy written across one's face
笑里藏刀	xiao	dao	lit. a dagger hidden in smiles (idiom); friendly manners belying hypocritical intentions; when the fox preaches, look to the geese
笑面虎	xiao	hu	man with a big smile and evil intentions
笔下生花	bi	hua	to write elegantly
笔杆子	bi	zi	pen; an effective writer
笔画数	bi	shu	stroke count (number of brushstrokes of a Chinese character)
笔画检字表	bi	biao	stroke-count character index; table for looking up characters by number of strokes
笔管面	bi	mian	penne pasta
笔记型电脑	bi	nao	notebook (computer)
笔记本	bi	ben	notebook (stationery) (CL:本[ben3]); (computing) laptop; notebook (abbr. for 筆記本電腦|笔记本电脑[bi3 ji4 ben3 dian4 nao3])
笔记本电脑	bi	nao	laptop; notebook (computer); CL:臺|台[tai2],部[bu4]
笔记本计算机	bi	ji	laptop; notebook (computer)
笔走龙蛇	bi	she	(lit.) the brush flows with the fluidity of a dragon or snake (idiom); (fig.) (of brushwork, esp for calligraphy) lively; vigorous
笛卡儿	di	er	René Descartes (1596–1650), French philosopher, mathematician and scientist
笛卡儿坐标系	di	xi	(math.) Cartesian coordinate system
笛卡尔	di	er	René Descartes (1596-1650) French philosopher
笛沙格	di	ge	Girard Desargues (1591–1661), French geometer
符号学	fu	xue	semiotics; semiology
符拉迪沃斯托克	fu	ke	Vladivostok (Russian port city, Chinese name: 海參崴|海参崴[Hai3 shen1 wai3])
符类福音	fu	yin	synoptic gospels (i.e. Matthew, Mark and Luke, with similar accounts and chronology)
符腾堡	fu	bao	Württemberg, region of southwest Germany, former state around Stuttgart 斯圖加特|斯图加特[Si1 tu2 jia1 te4]
符记环	fu	huan	token ring (computing)
笨到家了	ben	le	extremely stupid
笨口拙舌	ben	she	see 笨嘴拙舌[ben4 zui3 zhuo1 she2]
笨嘴拙腮	ben	sai	see 笨嘴拙舌[ben4 zui3 zhuo1 she2]
笨嘴拙舌	ben	she	clumsy in speech; poor speaker
笨嘴笨舌	ben	she	see 笨嘴拙舌[ben4 zui3 zhuo1 she2]
笨头笨脑	ben	nao	(idiom) stupid; muddle-headed
笨手笨脚	ben	jiao	clumsy; all thumbs
笨鸟先飞	ben	fei	lit. the clumsy bird flies early (idiom); fig. to work hard to compensate for one's limited abilities
第一世界	di	jie	First World
第一产业	di	ye	primary sector of industry
第一人称射击	di	ji	first-person shooter (video game genre)
第一作者	di	zhe	first author (of an academic paper)
第一国际	di	ji	First international, organized by Karl Marx in Geneva in 1866
第一型糖尿病	di	bing	Type 1 diabetes
第一基本形式	di	shi	(math.) first fundamental form
第一声	di	sheng	first tone in Mandarin; high, level tone
第一夫人	di	ren	First Lady (wife of the head of state)
第一季度	di	du	first quarter (of financial year)
第一岛链	di	lian	(geopolitics) First Island Chain, strategic arc of islands including Japan, Taiwan and the Philippines
第一手	di	shou	first-hand
第一把手	di	shou	the person in charge; the head of the leadership group
第一时间	di	jian	in the first moments (of sth happening); immediately (after an event); first thing
第一桶金	di	jin	the first pot of gold; the initial profits from an economic endeavour
第一次	di	ci	the first time; for the first time
第一次世界大战	di	zhan	World War One
第一步	di	bu	step one; first step
第一流	di	liu	first-class
第一炮	di	pao	(fig.) opening shot
第一眼	di	yan	at first glance; at first sight
第一线	di	xian	front line; forefront
第一轮	di	lun	first round (of match, or election)
第三世界	di	jie	Third World
第三产业	di	ye	tertiary sector of industry
第三人称	di	cheng	third person (grammar)
第三国际	di	ji	see 共產國際|共产国际[Gong4 chan3 Guo2 ji4]
第三地	di	di	territory belonging to a third party (as a neutral location for peace negotiations or as a transit point for indirect travel or trade etc)
第三声	di	sheng	third tone in Mandarin; falling-rising tone
第三季度	di	du	third quarter (of financial year)
第三帝国	di	guo	Third Reich, Nazi regime (1933-1945)
第三方	di	fang	third party
第三状态	di	tai	suboptimal health status
第三眼睑	di	jian	(zoology) nictitating membrane
第三纪	di	ji	third period; tertiary (geological era since the extinction of the dinosaurs at the Cretaceous-Tertiary boundary 65 million years ago)
第三者	di	zhe	third party; (in romance) the other woman or man
第二世界	di	jie	Second World (Cold War-era term referring to communist nations as a bloc)
第二个人	di	ren	the second person; (fig.) someone else; third party
第二产业	di	ye	secondary industry
第二型糖尿病	di	bing	Type 2 diabetes
第二声	di	sheng	second tone in Mandarin; rising tone
第二天	di	tian	next day; the morrow
第二季度	di	du	second quarter (of financial year)
第二岛链	di	lian	(geopolitics) Second Island Chain, strategic arc of islands stretching from Japan's Bonin Islands to Guam and Papua New Guinea
第二性	di	xing	The Second Sex (book by Simone de Beauvoir)
第二春	di	chun	(lit.) second spring; (fig.) falling in love for the second time; a new lease of life
第二次	di	ci	the second time; the second occurrence
第二次世界大战	di	zhan	World War II
第二次汉字简化方案	di	an	Second Chinese Character Simplification Scheme (second round of simplified Chinese characters, proposed in 1977 and retracted in 1986)
第二次鸦片战争	di	zheng	the Second Opium War (1856–1860)
第二职业	di	ye	second job
第二轮	di	lun	second round (of match, or election)
第五纵队	di	dui	fifth column (subversive group)
第六人	di	ren	(basketball) sixth man
第六感	di	gan	sixth sense (i.e. intuition, premonition, telepathy etc)
第六感觉	di	jue	sixth sense; intuition
第勒尼安海	di	hai	Tyrrhenian Sea between Sardinia and the Italian mainland
第四台	di	tai	fourth channel; (in Taiwan) cable TV, FTV
第四堵墙	di	qiang	the fourth wall (in theater, TV, film etc)
第四声	di	sheng	fourth tone in Mandarin; falling tone
第四季	di	ji	fourth quarter
第四季度	di	du	fourth quarter (of financial year)
第四权	di	quan	the fourth estate; the press
第四纪	di	ji	fourth period; quaternary (geological period covering the recent ice ages over the last 180,000 years)
第四面墙	di	qiang	the fourth wall (in theater, TV, film etc)
第比利斯	di	si	T'bilisi, capital of Georgia 格魯吉亞|格鲁吉亚[Ge2 lu3 ji2 ya4]
第纳尔	di	er	dinar (currency) (loanword)
笼鸟槛猿	long	yuan	bird in a basket, monkey in a cage (idiom); prisoner
等一下	deng	xia	to wait a moment; later; in awhile
等一下儿	deng	r	erhua variant of 等一下[deng3 yi1 xia4]
等一会	deng	hui	Wait a moment!; after a while
等一会儿	deng	r	erhua variant of 等一會|等一会[deng3 yi1 hui4]
等一等	deng	deng	wait a moment
等不及	deng	ji	can't wait
等价交换	deng	huan	equal-value exchange
等价关系	deng	xi	(math.) equivalence relation
等位基因	deng	yin	allele (one of two paired gene in diploid organism)
等化器	deng	qi	equalizer (electronics, audio) (HK, Tw)
等压线	deng	xian	isobar (line of equal pressure)
等变压线	deng	xian	isallobar (line of equal pressure gradient)
等同语	deng	yu	(linguistics) an equivalent; a translation of a term into the target language
等周不等式	deng	shi	the isoperimetric inequality
等因奉此	deng	ci	officialese; official routine; (old) (conventional phrase used in response to one's superior) in view of the above, we therefore...
等差数列	deng	lie	(math.) arithmetic progression
等差级数	deng	shu	arithmetic series (such as 2+4+6+8+...)
等待时间	deng	jian	waiting time; (computing) latency
等效百万吨当量	deng	liang	equivalent megatonnage (EMT)
等比数列	deng	lie	geometric progression
等比级数	deng	shu	geometric series (such as 1+2+4+8+...)
等熵线	deng	xian	(physics) isentropic curve
等着瞧	deng	qiao	wait and see (who is right)
等离子	deng	zi	(physics) plasma
等离子体	deng	ti	plasma (physics)
等级制度	deng	du	hierarchy
等而下之	deng	zhi	going from there to lower grades (idiom)
等腰三角形	deng	xing	isosceles triangle
等轴晶系	deng	xi	cubical system (crystallography); crystal system based on cubic lattice; equiaxial crystal system
等边三角形	deng	xing	equilateral triangle
等闲之辈	deng	bei	(in the negative) (not) to be trifled with
等额选举	deng	ju	non-competitive election (i.e. with as many candidates as there are seats); single-candidate election
等高线	deng	xian	contour line
筋斗云	jin	yun	Sun Wukong's magical cloud
筋疲力尽	jin	jin	body weary, strength exhausted (idiom); extremely tired; spent
筋膜枪	jin	qiang	fascia gun; fascia massage gun
筋膜炎	jin	yan	(medicine) fasciitis
筐箧中物	kuang	wu	a commonplace thing
筑室道谋	zhu	mou	lit. ask passers-by how to build one's house (idiom); fig. to have no idea what to do; without a clue
筒子米糕	tong	gao	rice tube pudding, a single-serve column of glutinous rice topped with a sauce and garnished (Taiwanese dish, originally prepared by stuffing rice into bamboo tubes and steaming them)
答录机	da	ji	answering machine
答非所问	da	wen	(idiom) to sidestep the question; to answer evasively
策划人	ce	ren	sponsor; plotter; schemer
策勒县	ce	xian	Qira, a county in Hotan City 和田市[He2 tian2 Shi4], Xinjiang
策展人	ce	ren	curator
策源地	ce	di	place of origin; source (of a war or a social movement)
筚路蓝缕	bi	lv	the hardships of beginning an undertaking (idiom)
筚门闺窦	bi	dou	wicker door, hole window (idiom); fig. wretched hovel; living in poverty
筠连县	jun	xian	Junlian, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
筵席捐	yan	juan	tax on a banquet or feast
筷子腿	kuai	tui	(coll.) skinny legs
筷子芥	kuai	jie	Arabis, a genus of Brassica family including cress
筹委会	chou	hui	organizing committee
筼筜湖	yun	hu	Yundang or Yuandang Lake in Xiamen
签发地点	qian	dian	place of issue (of document)
签售会	qian	hui	(publishing industry) book signing event; (music industry) fansign event
签唱会	qian	hui	(of a singer) autograph session; record signing event
签字笔	qian	bi	felt-tip pen; roller ball pen; gel ink pen
签字者	qian	zhe	signatory
签字费	qian	fei	signing bonus; sign-on bonus
签派室	qian	shi	dispatch office
签约奖金	qian	jin	signing bonus; sign-on bonus
签语饼	qian	bing	fortune cookie
简体字	jian	zi	simplified Chinese character, as opposed to traditional Chinese character 繁體字|繁体字[fan2 ti3 zi4]
简化字	jian	zi	simplified Chinese character
简单化	jian	hua	simplification; to simplify
简单地说	jian	shuo	to put it simply; simply put
简单明了	jian	liao	clear and simple; in simple terms
简单网络管理协议	jian	yi	Simple Network Management Protocol; SNMP
简帖儿	jian	r	a letter
简明扼要	jian	yao	brief and to the point (idiom); succinct
简易棚	jian	peng	makeshift shelter; awning
简易爆炸装置	jian	zhi	improvised explosive device (IED)
简氏防务周刊	jian	kan	Jane's defense weekly
简短介绍	jian	shao	brief introduction
简笔画	jian	hua	simple drawing; sketch
简繁转换	jian	huan	conversion from simple to traditional Chinese characters
简而言之	jian	zhi	in a nutshell; to put it briefly
简要介绍	jian	shao	brief introduction
简言之	jian	zhi	in simple terms; to put things simply; briefly
简谐振动	jian	dong	simple harmonic oscillation; sinusoidal oscillation
简谐波	jian	bo	simple harmonic wave; sine wave
简谐运动	jian	dong	simple harmonic motion (in mechanics); motion of a simple pendulum
简阳市	jian	shi	Jianyang, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
箍桶匠	gu	jiang	cooper; hooper
箍桶店	gu	dian	coopery
箍节儿	gu	r	short length; small section or portion
算不了	suan	liao	does not count for anything; of no account
算不得	suan	de	not count as
算你狠	suan	hen	you got me!; you win!; you are something!
算命先生	suan	sheng	fortune-teller
算命家	suan	jia	fortune-teller
算命者	suan	zhe	fortune-teller
算哪根葱	suan	cong	who do (you) think (you) are?; who does (he, she etc) think (he, she) is?
算术平均	suan	jun	arithmetic mean (math.)
算术平均数	suan	shu	arithmetic mean
算术式	suan	shi	(math.) arithmetic expression
算术级数	suan	shu	arithmetic series (such as 2+4+6+8+...)
算老几	suan	ji	just who do (you) think (you) are? (or "just who does (she) think (she) is?" etc)
算起来	suan	lai	to calculate; to estimate; in total
管不着	guan	zhao	to have no right or ability to interfere in sth; it's none of your business!
管东管西	guan	xi	to micromanage; to be controlling
管中窥豹	guan	bao	lit. to see a leopard through a narrow tube (idiom); fig. to miss the big picture
管乐器	guan	qi	wind instrument; woodwind
管他三七二十一	guan	yi	who cares; no matter what; regardless of the consequences
管他呢	guan	ne	don’t worry about (it, him etc); doesn’t matter; whatever
管他的	guan	de	don’t worry about (it, him etc); doesn’t matter; whatever
管住嘴迈开腿	guan	tui	lit. shut your mouth, move your legs (motto for losing weight)
管圆线虫	guan	chong	"eel worm", a parasitic worm carrying meningitis
管城区	guan	qu	Guangcheng Hui District of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
管城回族区	guan	qu	Guancheng Hui District, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
管委会	guan	hui	administrative committee; management committee; abbr. for 管理委員會|管理委员会[guan3 li3 wei3 yuan2 hui4]
管子工	guan	gong	plumber; pipe-fitter
管子钳	guan	qian	pipe wrench; monkey wrench
管家婆	guan	po	housewife (jocular); female housekeeper of a higher rank (old); busybody
管弦乐	guan	yue	orchestral music
管弦乐团	guan	tuan	orchestra
管弦乐队	guan	dui	orchestra
管得着	guan	zhao	to concern oneself with (a matter); to make (sth) one's business
管手管脚	guan	jiao	to control in every detail; excessive supervision
管扳手	guan	shou	pipe wrench
管教无方	guan	fang	unable to discipline a child; incapable of dealing with (unruly child)
管理人	guan	ren	supervisor; manager; administrator
管理信息库	guan	ku	Management Information Base; MIB
管理员	guan	yuan	manager; administrator
管理委员会	guan	hui	administrative committee; management committee
管理学	guan	xue	management studies
管理学院	guan	yuan	school of management
管理层收购	guan	gou	management buyout (MBO)
管理站	guan	zhan	management station
管理费	guan	fei	management fee
管窥所及	guan	ji	in my humble opinion
管见所及	guan	ji	in my humble opinion (idiom)
管道运输	guan	shu	pipeline transport
管闲事	guan	shi	to meddle; to be a "nosy Parker"; to be too inquisitive about other people's business
管风琴	guan	qin	organ; pipe organ
箪食壶浆	dan	jiang	to receive troops with food and drink (idiom); to give troops a hearty welcome; also pr. [dan1 si4 hu2 jiang1]
箭头键	jian	jian	arrow key (on keyboard)
箭毒木	jian	mu	antiaris, aka upas tree (Antiaris toxicaria)
箭毒蛙	jian	wa	poison dart frog
箱型车	xiang	che	van (Tw); also written 廂型車|厢型车[xiang1 xing2 che1]
篝火狐鸣	gou	ming	to tell fox ghost stories around a bonfire and incite rebellion; an uprising is afoot (idiom)
篮板球	lan	qiu	rebound (basketball)
篮球场	lan	chang	basketball court
篮球队	lan	dui	basketball team
篮网球	lan	qiu	netball
篷盖布	peng	bu	tarpaulin fabric
簇茎石竹	cu	zhu	boreal carnation or northern pink; Dianthus repens (botany)
簌簌发抖	su	dou	shivering; trembling (idiom)
簧风琴	huang	qin	harmonium
籍籍无名	ji	ming	unknown; unrenowned
米东区	mi	qu	Midong, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
米其林	mi	lin	Michelin (tire company)
米凯拉	mi	la	Michaela (name)
米利班德	mi	de	Milliband (name); Ed Milliband, UK labor politician, opposition leader from 2010
米奇老鼠	mi	shu	Mickey Mouse
米字旗	mi	qi	Union Jack (flag of the United Kingdom)
米尔斯	mi	si	Mills (name)
米尔顿	mi	dun	Milton (name); John Milton (1608-1674), English republican writer and poet, author of Paradise Lost
米已成炊	mi	chui	lit. the rice has already been cooked (idiom); fig. what is done cannot be undone
米底亚	mi	ya	Media (ancient Middle east region)
米开兰基罗	mi	luo	Michelangelo (Tw)
米开朗基罗	mi	luo	Michelangelo Buonarroti (1475-1564), Renaissance painter and sculptor
米德尔伯里	mi	li	Middlebury (College)
米易县	mi	xian	Miyi, a county in Panzhihua City 攀枝花市[Pan1 zhi1 hua1 Shi4], Sichuan
米林市	mi	shi	Mainling, a county-level city in Nyingchi City 林芝市[Lin2 zhi1 Shi4], Tibet
米歇尔	mi	er	Michel or Mitchell (name); George Mitchell (1933-), US Democratic party politician and diplomat, influential in brokering Northern Ireland peace deal in 1990s, US Middle East special envoy from 2009
米白色	mi	se	off-white; creamy white
米粉肉	mi	rou	rice flour meat
米粒组织	mi	zhi	granulation
米纳尔迪	mi	di	Minardi, Formula 1 racing team
米老鼠	mi	shu	Mickey Mouse
米脂县	mi	xian	Mizhi, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
米袋子	mi	zi	(fig.) supply of grain to the public
米该亚	mi	ya	Micah
米诺地尔	mi	er	(pharmacology) minoxidil
米诺安	mi	an	Minoan (civilization on Crete)
米高扬	mi	yang	Mikoyan (name); Anastas Ivanonovich Mikoyan (1895-1978), Soviet politician, politburo member in the 1950s and 1960s; Artem Ivanovich Mikoyan (1905-1970), brother of the politician and one designer of MiG military aircraft
米高梅	mi	mei	Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer (American media company)
米麴菌	mi	jun	Aspergillus oryzae (type of mold)
类乌齐	lei	qi	see 類烏齊縣|类乌齐县[Lei4 wu1 qi2 Xian4]
类乌齐县	lei	xian	Riwoche, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
类人猿	lei	yuan	hominid
类似点	lei	dian	resemblance
类器官	lei	guan	organoid (regenerative medicine)
类固醇	lei	chun	steroid
类地行星	lei	xing	terrestrial planet
类属词典	lei	dian	thesaurus
类星体	lei	ti	quasar
类木行星	lei	xing	Jovian planet
类毒素	lei	su	toxoid
类球面	lei	mian	prolate spheroid (math.)
类语辞典	lei	dian	thesaurus
类金属	lei	shu	metalloid (chemistry)
类风湿因子	lei	zi	rheumatoid factor
类黄酮	lei	tong	flavonoid (biochemistry)
类鼻疽	lei	ju	melioidosis
粉墨登场	fen	chang	to make up and go on stage (idiom); to embark on a career (esp. in politics or crime)
粉底液	fen	ye	(cosmetics) liquid foundation
粉砂岩	fen	yan	siltstone
粉砂石	fen	shi	siltstone
粉碎机	fen	ji	pulverizer; grinder
粉红山椒鸟	fen	niao	(bird species of China) rosy minivet (Pericrocotus roseus)
粉红椋鸟	fen	niao	(bird species of China) rosy starling (Pastor roseus)
粉红燕鸥	fen	ou	(bird species of China) roseate tern (Sterna dougallii)
粉红胸鹨	fen	liu	(bird species of China) rosy pipit (Anthus roseatus)
粉红腹岭雀	fen	que	(bird species of China) Asian rosy finch (Leucosticte arctoa)
粉红色	fen	se	pink
粉身碎骨	fen	gu	(lit.) torn body and crushed bones (idiom); (fig.) to die horribly; to sacrifice one's life
粉转黑	fen	hei	(Internet slang) to go from being an admirer to being a detractor
粉饰太平	fen	ping	to pretend that everything is going well
粒子加速器	li	qi	particle accelerator
粒子束	li	shu	beam of elementary particles
粒子流	li	liu	stream of particles; particle flow
粒子物理	li	li	particle physics
粒子物理学	li	xue	particle physics
粒白细胞	li	bao	white granulocyte (blood cell)
粒细胞	li	bao	granulocyte
粗体字	cu	zi	bold letter
粗制滥造	cu	zao	to churn out large quantities without regard for quality (idiom); rough and slipshod work
粗心大意	cu	yi	negligent; careless; inadvertent
粗枝大叶	cu	ye	thick stems and broad leaves (idiom); boorish; rough and ready
粗管面	cu	mian	rigatoni
粗茶淡饭	cu	fan	plain tea and simple food; (fig.) bread and water
粗鲁不文	cu	wen	crude and ill-educated (idiom)
粘乎乎	nian	hu	sticky; slimy
粘扣带	zhan	dai	velcro; Taiwan pr. [nian2kou4dai4]
粘皮带骨	nian	gu	(old) (idiom) muddled; indecisive; plodding
粘皮着骨	nian	gu	see 粘皮帶骨|粘皮带骨[nian2 pi2 dai4 gu3]
粘稠度	nian	du	viscosity
粘船鱼	zhan	yu	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
粤汉铁路	yue	lu	Canton-Hankou Railway, linking Guangzhou and Wuchang, incorporated since 1957 into the Jing-Guang Railway 京廣鐵路|京广铁路[Jing1 Guang3 Tie3 lu4]
粤港澳大湾区	yue	qu	Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, established in 2017, consisting of Hong Kong, Macao and nine cities in Guangdong
粤语拼音	yue	yin	Cantonese romanization; Jyutping, one of the many Cantonese romanization systems
粥少僧多	zhou	duo	see 僧多粥少[seng1 duo1 zhou1 shao3]
粥样硬化	zhou	hua	atherosclerosis; hardening of the arteries
粪化石	fen	shi	coprolite
粪金龟	fen	gui	dung beetle
粪金龟子	fen	zi	dung beetle
粮食作物	liang	wu	grain crops; cereals
粲夸克	can	ke	charm quark (particle physics)
精于此道	jing	dao	to be proficient in the area of; skilled in this field
精利主义	jing	yi	egoism masked by a veneer of urbanity (neologism c. 2012) (abbr. for 精緻的利己主義|精致的利己主义[jing1 zhi4 de5 li4 ji3 zhu3 yi4])
精力充沛	jing	pei	vigorous; energetic
精卫填海	jing	hai	lit. mythical bird Jingwei tries to fill the ocean with stones (idiom); futile ambition; task of Sisyphus; determination in the face of impossible odds
精品店	jing	dian	boutique
精子密度	jing	du	sperm concentration, often called sperm count
精子库	jing	ku	sperm bank
精密仪器	jing	qi	precision instruments
精密化	jing	hua	refinement; to add precision
精密陶瓷	jing	ci	fine ceramics (used for dental implants, synthetic bones, electronics, knife blades etc); advanced ceramics; engineered ceramics
精尽人亡	jing	wang	to die from excessive ejaculation
精干高效	jing	xiao	top-notch efficiency
精打光	jing	guang	with absolutely nothing; completely broke
精打细算	jing	suan	meticulous planning and careful accounting (idiom)
精挑细选	jing	xuan	to select very carefully
精明强干	jing	gan	intelligent and capable (idiom)
精明能干	jing	gan	able and efficient
精气神	jing	shen	the three energies of Chinese medicine: 精[jing1], 氣|气[qi4], and 神[shen2]
精氨酸	jing	suan	argnine (Arg), an essential amino acid
精河县	jing	xian	Jinghe, a county in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
精灵文	jing	wen	Elvish (language of elves)
精炼厂	jing	chang	refinery
精疲力尽	jing	jin	spirit weary, strength exhausted (idiom); spent; drained; washed out
精疲力竭	jing	jie	spirit weary, strength exhausted (idiom); spent; drained; washed out
精益求精	jing	jing	(idiom) to constantly seek to improve; to keep perfecting
精确度	jing	du	accuracy; precision
精神健康	jing	kang	mental health
精神分析	jing	xi	psychoanalysis
精神分裂症	jing	zheng	schizophrenia
精神奕奕	jing	yi	in great spirits; to have great vitality
精神学	jing	xue	psychology
精神学家	jing	jia	psychologist
精神官能症	jing	zheng	neurosis
精神家园	jing	yuan	spiritual home
精神崩溃	jing	kui	nervous breakdown
精神性	jing	xing	spirituality; mental; nervous
精神性厌食症	jing	zheng	anorexia nervosa
精神恍惚	jing	hu	(idiom) absent-minded; in a trance
精神抖擞	jing	sou	spirit trembling with excitement (idiom); in high spirits; lively and full of enthusiasm; full of energy
精神支柱	jing	zhu	moral pillars; spiritual props
精神文明	jing	ming	spiritual culture
精神日本人	jing	ren	(neologism) "spiritually Japanese person"; person who identifies strongly with Japan
精神洁癖	jing	pi	moral fastidiousness; psychological obsession with maintaining moral purity in thoughts, relationships etc
精神满腹	jing	fu	full of wisdom (idiom); astute and widely experienced
精神焕发	jing	fa	in high spirits (idiom); glowing with health and vigor
精神状态	jing	tai	mental state; psychological condition
精神狂乱	jing	luan	delirium; mental illness
精神生活	jing	huo	spiritual or moral life
精神疗法	jing	fa	psychotherapy; mental health treatment
精神疾病	jing	bing	mental illness
精神病	jing	bing	mental disorder; psychosis
精神病医院	jing	yuan	psychiatric hospital
精神病学	jing	xue	psychiatry
精神病患	jing	huan	mental illness
精神病院	jing	yuan	mental hospital; psychiatric hospital
精神百倍	jing	bei	lit. vitality a hundredfold (idiom); refreshed; one's vigor thoroughly restored
精神科	jing	ke	psychiatry
精神科医生	jing	sheng	psychiatrist
精神药物	jing	wu	psychotropic drugs
精神衰弱	jing	ruo	psychasthenia; obsessive-compulsive disorder
精神训话	jing	hua	pep talk
精神财富	jing	fu	spiritual wealth
精神错乱	jing	luan	insanity
精神领袖	jing	xiu	spiritual leader (of a nation or church); religious leader
精神饱满	jing	man	full of vigor (idiom); lively; in high spirits
精简开支	jing	zhi	to reduce spending; to cut spending
精算师	jing	shi	actuary
精索静脉曲张	jing	zhang	varicocele (medicine)
精耕细作	jing	zuo	intensive farming
精致露营	jing	ying	glamping (neologism c. 2019)
精虫冲脑	jing	nao	lit. the spermatozoons have gone to his head; fig. overwhelmed by lust
精讲多练	jing	lian	a teaching strategy combining a concise explanation of essential concepts with frequent practice
精诚所加金石为开	jing	kai	see 精誠所至，金石為開|精诚所至，金石为开[jing1 cheng2 suo3 zhi4 , jin1 shi2 wei4 kai1]
精诚所至	jing	zhi	no difficulty is insurmountable if one is sincere (idiom)
精诚所至金石为开	jing	kai	lit. metal and stone yield to power of sincerity (idiom); fig. no difficulty is insurmountable if one is sincere
精读课	jing	ke	intensive reading course
精酿啤酒	jing	jiu	craft beer
精雕细刻	jing	ke	(lit.) fine sculpting (idiom); (fig.) to work (at sth) with extreme care and precision
精雕细琢	jing	zhuo	see 精雕細刻|精雕细刻[jing1 diao1 xi4 ke4]
糊墙纸	hu	zhi	wallpaper
糊涂虫	hu	chong	blunderer; bungler
糊涂账	hu	zhang	muddled accounts; a mess of bookkeeping
糊糊涂涂	hu	tu	confused; muddled; stupid
糊里糊涂	hu	tu	confused; vague; indistinct
糖尿病	tang	bing	diabetes; diabetes mellitus
糖尿病足	tang	zu	(medicine) diabetic foot
糖油粑粑	tang	ba	sweet snack made from glutinous rice, sugar and honey, common in Changsha 長沙|长沙[Chang2 sha1], Hunan
糖皮质激素	tang	su	glucocorticosteroid (corticosteroid hormone secreted by the adrenal cortex)
糖葫芦	tang	lu	sugar-coated Chinese hawthorn or other fruit on a bamboo skewer; tanghulu
糖蛋白	tang	bai	glycoprotein
糖衣炮弹	tang	dan	sugar-coated bullets, term used by Mao (originally in 1949) to refer to corrupting bourgeois influences
糖酵解	tang	jie	glycolysis (anaerobic metabolism of glucose)
糖醋肉	tang	rou	sweet and sour pork
糖醋里脊	tang	ji	sweet and sour pork
糖醋鱼	tang	yu	sweet and sour fish
糖高粱	tang	liang	sweet sorghum
糙皮病	cao	bing	pellagra (medicine)
糙面内质网	cao	wang	rough endoplasmic reticulum
糜烂性毒剂	mi	ji	vesicant
糟溜黄鱼	zao	yu	stir-fried yellow fish filet
糟溜黄鱼片	zao	pian	stir-fried yellow fish filet
糟糠妻	zao	qi	wife who goes through the hardships of poverty with her husband
糯米粉	nuo	fen	glutinous rice flour
糯米糍	nuo	ci	glutinous rice cake
糯米糕	nuo	gao	glutinous rice cake; CL:塊|块[kuai4]
糯米纸	nuo	zhi	rice paper; membrane of glutinous rice, used to wrap sweets etc
系主任	xi	ren	head of a (university) department; department chair
系出名门	xi	men	to come from a distinguished family
系列片	xi	pian	film series
系统性	xi	xing	systematic
系统角色	xi	se	non-playable character (in a role-playing game)
素不相能	su	neng	unable to get along (idiom)
素不相识	su	shi	to be total strangers (idiom)
素昧平生	su	sheng	(idiom) to have never met sb before; entirely unacquainted
素未谋面	su	mian	(idiom) to have never met; to be complete strangers
素质差	su	cha	so uneducated!; so ignorant!
素质教育	su	yu	all-round education (as opposed to exam-oriented education 應試教育|应试教育[ying4 shi4 jiao4 yu4])
素面朝天	su	tian	lit. to present oneself confidently to the emperor, without makeup (as did the sister of Yang Guifei 楊貴妃|杨贵妃[Yang2 Gui4 fei1]) (idiom); fig. (of a woman) to show one's natural features, without makeup; to present oneself just as one is, without artifice
素食主义	su	yi	vegetarianism
素食者	su	zhe	vegetarian
索具装置	suo	zhi	rig
索多玛	suo	ma	Sodom
索多玛与哈摩辣	suo	la	Sodom and Gomorrah
索尔仁尼琴	suo	qin	Alexandr Solzhenitsyn (1918-2008), Russian writer, prominent Soviet dissident, author of the Gulag Archipelago
索尔兹伯里平原	suo	yuan	Salisbury plain
索尔兹伯里石环	suo	huan	Stonehenge; Salisbury stone circle
索杰纳	suo	na	Sojourner (Martian land rover)
索然寡味	suo	wei	dull and insipid
索然无味	suo	wei	dull; insipid
索福克勒斯	suo	si	Sophocles (496–406 BC), Greek tragedian, author of Oedipus Rex
索福克里斯	suo	si	Sophocles (496-406 BC), Greek playwright
索绪尔	suo	er	Saussure (name)
索罗斯	suo	si	Soros (name); George Soros or György Schwartz (1930-), Hungarian American financial speculator and millionaire philanthropist
索罗门	suo	men	Solomon (name); Solomon (Islands)
索菲亚	suo	ya	Sofia (capital of Bulgaria)
索邦大学	suo	xue	Université Paris IV; the Sorbonne
索里亚	suo	ya	Soria, Spain
索非亚	suo	ya	Sofia, capital of Bulgaria
索马利亚	suo	ya	(Tw) Somalia
索马甜	suo	tian	(loanword) thaumatin
索马里	suo	li	Somalia
紧凑型车	jin	che	compact car model
紧凑渺子线圈	jin	quan	Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS)
紧咬不放	jin	fang	(idiom) unwilling to let go; like a dog with a bone; dogged
紧密相联	jin	lian	closely interrelated; intimately related
紧密织物	jin	wu	closely woven fabric
紧密配合	jin	he	to coordinate closely; to act in close partnership with
紧巴巴	jin	ba	tight fitting; hard up (i.e. lacking money)
紧张状态	jin	tai	tense situation; standoff
紧张缓和	jin	he	detente
紧急事件	jin	jian	emergency
紧急医疗	jin	liao	emergency medical care
紧急应变	jin	bian	emergency management
紧急状态	jin	tai	state of emergency
紧急疏散	jin	san	emergency evacuation
紧接着	jin	zhe	immediately afterwards; shortly after that
紧箍咒	jin	zhou	the Band-tightening Spell (in 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]); a spell or incantation for controlling sb
紧绷绷	jin	beng	tight; stretched; (face, lips) taut; strained
紧衣缩食	jin	shi	see 節衣縮食|节衣缩食[jie2 yi1 suo1 shi2]
紧要关头	jin	tou	urgent and important moment (idiom); critical juncture
紧迫盯人	jin	ren	(sports) to closely guard an opponent; (fig.) to keep a close eye on sb; to monitor closely
紧锣密鼓	jin	gu	(lit.) urgent beating of gongs and drums (idiom); (fig.) to urgently prepare for an upcoming event
紧随其后	jin	hou	to follow closely behind sb or sth (idiom)
紫丁香	zi	xiang	lilac
紫云县	zi	xian	see 紫云苗族布依族自治縣|紫云苗族布依族自治县[Zi3 yun2 Miao2 zu2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
紫云英	zi	ying	Chinese milk vetch (Astragalus sinicus)
紫啸鸫	zi	dong	(bird species of China) blue whistling thrush (Myophonus caeruleus)
紫坪铺	zi	pu	Zipingpu Dam, Sichuan
紫坪铺大坝	zi	ba	Zipingpu Dam, Sichuan
紫坪铺水库	zi	ku	Zipingpu Dam, Sichuan
紫外光	zi	guang	ultraviolet light
紫外射线	zi	xian	ultraviolet ray
紫外线	zi	xian	ultraviolet ray
紫宽嘴鸫	zi	dong	(bird species of China) purple cochoa (Cochoa purpurea)
紫寿带	zi	dai	(bird species of China) black paradise flycatcher; Japanese paradise flycatcher (Terpsiphone atrocaudata)
紫式部	zi	bu	Murasaki Shikibu (born c. 973), Japanese writer, author of "The Tale of Genji"
紫微宫	zi	gong	palace of Jade emperor (in Taoism)
紫微斗数	zi	shu	Zi Wei Dou Shu, a form of Chinese fortune-telling
紫杉醇	zi	chun	Taxol (a.k.a. Paclitaxel), mitotic inhibitor used in cancer chemotherapy
紫林鸽	zi	ge	(bird species of China) pale-capped pigeon (Columba punicea)
紫气东来	zi	lai	(idiom) auspicious omen heralding good fortune
紫水晶	zi	jing	amethyst
紫水鸡	zi	ji	(bird species of China) grey-headed swamphen (Porphyrio poliocephalus)
紫河车	zi	che	(TCM) dried human placenta (used as medicine)
紫甘蓝	zi	lan	red cabbage; purple cabbage
紫石英	zi	ying	amethyst
紫石英号	zi	hao	HMS Amethyst, Royal Navy corvette fired on by PLA forces on the Yangtze River in 1949, triggering the Amethyst Incident
紫砂壶	zi	hu	zisha teapot; Yixing teapot
紫禁城	zi	cheng	the Forbidden City; the Imperial Palace in Beijing; same as 故宮|故宫[Gu4 gong1]
紫红色	zi	se	red-purple; mauve; prune (color)
紫罗兰	zi	lan	(botany) common stock; gillyflower (Matthiola incana); (botany) violet
紫罗兰色	zi	se	violet (color)
紫翅椋鸟	zi	niao	(bird species of China) common starling (Sturnus vulgaris)
紫背椋鸟	zi	niao	(bird species of China) chestnut-cheeked starling (Agropsar philippensis)
紫背苇鳽	zi	yan	(bird species of China) von Schrenck's bittern (Ixobrychus eurhythmus)
紫色花蜜鸟	zi	niao	(bird species of China) purple sunbird (Cinnyris asiaticus)
紫芝眉宇	zi	yu	your appearance (honorific)
紫花地丁	zi	ding	Chinese violet (Viola mandsurica)
紫苏属	zi	shu	genus Perilla (includes basil and mints)
紫草科	zi	ke	Boraginaceae (family of flowers and bushes)
紫菜包饭	zi	fan	gimbap, aka kimbap (Korean dish made by rolling up steamed rice and other ingredients in a sheet of nori)
紫菜属	zi	shu	Porphyra (genus of edible seaweed)
紫菜苔	zi	tai	variant of 紫菜薹[zi3 cai4 tai2]
紫菜薹	zi	tai	purple choy sum (Brassica rapa var. purpurea)
紫质症	zi	zheng	porphyria (medicine)
紫金县	zi	xian	Zijin, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
紫金山	zi	shan	Purple Mountain in suburbs of Nanjing, with Ming tombs and Sun Yat-sen's mausoleum
紫金山天文台	zi	tai	Purple Mountain Observatory
紫金牛	zi	niu	Japanese ardisia (Ardisia japonica)
紫金鹃	zi	juan	(bird species of China) violet cuckoo (Chrysococcyx xanthorhynchus)
紫锥花	zi	hua	coneflower genus (Echinacea)
紫阳县	zi	xian	Ziyang, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
紫颊直嘴太阳鸟	zi	niao	(bird species of China) ruby-cheeked sunbird (Chalcoparia singalensis)
累加器	lei	qi	accumulator (computing)
累加总数	lei	shu	cumulative total
累成狗	lei	gou	(Internet slang) to be dog-tired
累死累活	lei	huo	to tire oneself out through overwork; to work oneself to death
累积剂量	lei	liang	cumulative dose
累觉不爱	lei	ai	(lit.) so exhausted (by difficulties in a relationship) that one feels one could never fall in love again (Internet slang); disenchanted with sth
絮状物	xu	wu	floccule; a wisp of material precipitated from liquid
絮絮叨叨	xu	dao	long-winded; garrulous; to talk endlessly without getting to the point
綦江区	qi	qu	Qijiang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
繁体字	fan	zi	traditional Chinese character
繁峙县	fan	xian	Fanshi, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
繁征博引	fan	yin	an elaborate string of references; many quotations
繁文缛节	fan	jie	convoluted and overelaborate (document); unnecessarily elaborate writing; mumbo-jumbo
繁昌区	fan	qu	Fanchang, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
繁殖体	fan	ti	(biology) propagule
繁荣昌盛	fan	sheng	glorious and flourishing (idiom); thriving
纠缠不清	jiu	qing	hopelessly muddled; impossible to unravel
纡尊降贵	yu	gui	(idiom) to show deference to sb of lower status; to condescend; to deign
红不让	hong	rang	home run (loanword); a big hit (hugely popular) (Tw)
红五类	hong	lei	the “five red categories” (Cultural Revolution term), i.e. poor and lower-middle peasants, workers, revolutionary soldiers, revolutionary cadres, and revolutionary martyrs
红交嘴雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) red crossbill (Loxia curvirostra)
红利股	hong	gu	dividend-paying stock
红利股票	hong	piao	dividend-paying stock
红加仑	hong	lun	redcurrant
红十字	hong	zi	Red Cross
红十字会	hong	hui	the Red Cross
红卫兵	hong	bing	Red Guards (Cultural Revolution, 1966-1976)
红原县	hong	xian	Hongyuan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
红原鸡	hong	ji	(bird species of China) red junglefowl (Gallus gallus)
红古区	hong	qu	Honggu, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
红名单	hong	dan	whitelist
红喉姬鹟	hong	weng	(bird species of China) taiga flycatcher (Ficedula albicilla)
红喉山鹧鸪	hong	gu	(bird species of China) rufous-throated partridge (Arborophila rufogularis)
红喉歌鸲	hong	qu	(bird species of China) Siberian rubythroat (Calliope calliope)
红喉潜鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) red-throated loon (Gavia stellata)
红喉鹨	hong	liu	(bird species of China) red-throated pipit (Anthus cervinus)
红嘴山鸦	hong	ya	(bird species of China) red-billed chough (Pyrrhocorax pyrrhocorax)
红嘴巨鸥	hong	ou	(bird species of China) Caspian tern (Hydroprogne caspia)
红嘴椋鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) Burmese myna (Acridotheres burmannicus)
红嘴相思鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) red-billed leiothrix (Leiothrix lutea)
红嘴蓝鹊	hong	que	(bird species of China) red-billed blue magpie (Urocissa erythroryncha)
红嘴钩嘴鹛	hong	mei	(bird species of China) black-crowned scimitar babbler (Pomatorhinus ferruginosus)
红嘴鸥	hong	ou	(bird species of China) black-headed gull (Chroicocephalus ridibundus)
红嘴鸦雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) great parrotbill (Paradoxornis aemodium)
红嘴鹲	hong	meng	(bird species of China) red-billed tropicbird (Phaethon aethereus)
红地毯	hong	tan	red carpet
红塔区	hong	qu	Hongta, a district of Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
红外光谱	hong	pu	infrared spectrum
红外线	hong	xian	infrared ray
红头咬鹃	hong	juan	(bird species of China) red-headed trogon (Harpactes erythrocephalus)
红头噪鹛	hong	mei	(bird species of China) chestnut-crowned laughingthrush (Trochalopteron erythrocephalum)
红头文件	hong	jian	red-letterhead document, an official document with the name of the issuing government agency printed in red at the top, circulated to relevant bodies
红头潜鸭	hong	ya	(bird species of China) common pochard (Aythya ferina)
红头灰雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) red-headed bullfinch (Pyrrhula erythrocephala)
红头穗鹛	hong	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-capped babbler (Cyanoderma ruficeps)
红头菜	hong	cai	beetroot
红头长尾山雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) black-throated bushtit (Aegithalos concinnus)
红头鸦雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) rufous-headed parrotbill (Paradoxornis bakeri)
红姑娘	hong	niang	Chinese lantern plant; winter cherry; strawberry ground-cherry
红安县	hong	xian	Hong'an, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
红宝书	hong	shu	the "Little Red Book" of selected writings of Mao Zedong (refers to 毛主席語錄|毛主席语录[Mao2 Zhu3 xi2 Yu3 lu4])
红宝石	hong	shi	ruby
红寡妇鸟	hong	niao	(ornithology) red bishop (Euplectes orix)
红寺堡	hong	bu	see 紅寺堡區|红寺堡区[Hong2 si4 bu3 Qu1]
红寺堡区	hong	qu	Hongsibu, a district of Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
红尾伯劳	hong	lao	(bird species of China) brown shrike (Lanius cristatus)
红尾歌鸲	hong	qu	(bird species of China) rufous-tailed robin (Larvivora sibilans)
红尾水鸲	hong	qu	(bird species of China) plumbeous water redstart (Phoenicurus fuliginosus)
红尾鸫	hong	dong	(bird species of China) Naumann's thrush (Turdus naumanni)
红尾鹲	hong	meng	(bird species of China) red-tailed tropicbird (Phaethon rubricauda)
红山区	hong	qu	Hongshan, a district of Chifeng City 赤峰市[Chi4 feng1 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
红岗区	hong	qu	Honggang, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
红巨星	hong	xing	red giant (star)
红巾军	hong	jun	the Red Turbans, peasant rebellion at the end of the Yuan dynasty
红彤彤	hong	tong	bright red
红扑扑	hong	pu	red; rosy; flushed
红斑性狼疮	hong	chuang	lupus erythematosus
红斑狼疮	hong	chuang	(medicine) lupus erythematosus
红新月	hong	yue	Red Crescent
红旗区	hong	qu	Hongqi, a district of Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
红景天	hong	tian	roseroot (Rhodiola rosea)
红曲米	hong	mi	red yeast rice
红杏出墙	hong	qiang	lit. the red apricot tree leans over the garden wall (idiom); fig. a wife having an illicit lover
红极一时	hong	shi	tremendously popular for a while
红树林	hong	lin	mangrove forest or swamp
红桤树	hong	shu	red alder (Alnus rubra)
红桥区	hong	qu	Hongqiao district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
红梅花雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) red avadavat (Amandava amandava)
红楼梦	hong	meng	A Dream of Red Mansions (first completed edition 1791) by Cao Xueqin 曹雪芹[Cao2 Xue3 qin2], one of the four great novels
红樱枪	hong	qiang	ancient spear-like weapon, decorated with a red tassel
红殷殷	hong	yan	dark red; crimson; also pr. [hong2 yin1 yin1]
红毛丹	hong	dan	rambutan or rumbutan (tropical fruit) (Nephelium lappaceum)
红河县	hong	xian	Honghe, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
红河州	hong	zhou	see 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
红灌木茶	hong	cha	rooibos tea
红火蚁	hong	yi	fire ant (Solenopsis invicta), an introduced species in China
红灯区	hong	qu	red-light district
红灯记	hong	ji	The Legend of the Red Lantern
红烧肉	hong	rou	red braised pork
红熊猫	hong	mao	lesser Panda; red panda; firefox
红牛皮菜	hong	cai	chard (Beta vulgaris)
红玉髓	hong	sui	(mineralogy) carnelian
红玛瑙	hong	nao	cornelian
红珊瑚	hong	hu	red coral; precious coral (Corallium rubrum and several related species of marine coral)
红璧玺	hong	xi	topaz
红男绿女	hong	nv	young people decked out in gorgeous clothes (idiom)
红白喜事	hong	shi	weddings and funerals
红眉朱雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) Chinese beautiful rosefinch (Carpodacus davidianus)
红眉松雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) crimson-browed finch (Carpodacus subhimachalus)
红眼病	hong	bing	pinkeye; envy; jealousy
红眼航班	hong	ban	red-eye flight
红矮星	hong	xing	red dwarf star
红筹股	hong	gu	red chip stocks (Chinese company stocks incorporated outside mainland China and listed in the Hong Kong stock exchange)
红箍儿	hong	r	(northern dialects) red armband
红细胞	hong	bao	erythrocyte; red blood cell
红细胞沉降率	hong	lv	erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR)
红绿灯	hong	deng	traffic light; traffic signal
红缨枪	hong	qiang	traditional Chinese spear with a red tassel at the base of the spearhead
红羊劫	hong	jie	national disaster (ancient astrological allusion)
红翅凤头鹃	hong	juan	(bird species of China) chestnut-winged cuckoo (Clamator coromandus)
红翅旋壁雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) wallcreeper (Tichodroma muraria)
红翅绿鸠	hong	jiu	(bird species of China) white-bellied green pigeon (Treron sieboldii)
红翅薮鹛	hong	mei	(bird species of China) scarlet-faced liocichla (Liocichla ripponi)
红翅鵙鹛	hong	mei	(bird species of China) white-browed shrike-babbler; Blyth's shrike-babbler (Pteruthius aeralatus)
红耳鹎	hong	bei	(bird species of China) red-whiskered bulbul (Pycnonotus jocosus)
红胁绣眼鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) chestnut-flanked white-eye (Zosterops erythropleurus)
红胁蓝尾鸲	hong	qu	(bird species of China) red-flanked bluetail (Tarsiger cyanurus)
红背伯劳	hong	lao	(bird species of China) red-backed shrike (Lanius collurio)
红背红尾鸲	hong	qu	(bird species of China) Eversmann's redstart; rufous-backed redstart (Phoenicurus erythronotus)
红背蜘蛛	hong	zhu	redback spider
红胡子	hong	zi	band of mounted bandits in Manchuria (archaic)
红胸啄花鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) fire-breasted flowerpecker (Dicaeum ignipectus)
红胸姬鹟	hong	weng	(bird species of China) red-breasted flycatcher (Ficedula parva)
红胸山鹧鸪	hong	gu	(bird species of China) chestnut-breasted partridge (Arborophila mandellii)
红胸朱雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) red-fronted rosefinch (Carpodacus puniceus)
红胸田鸡	hong	ji	(bird species of China) ruddy-breasted crake (Zapornia fusca)
红胸秋沙鸭	hong	ya	(bird species of China) red-breasted merganser (Mergus serrator)
红胸角雉	hong	zhi	(bird species of China) satyr tragopan (Tragopan satyra)
红胸鸻	hong	heng	(bird species of China) Caspian plover (Anarhynchus asiaticus)
红胸黑雁	hong	yan	(bird species of China) red-breasted goose (Branta ruficollis)
红脖子	hong	zi	redneck
红脚苦恶鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) brown crake (Amaurornis akool)
红脚隼	hong	sun	(bird species of China) Amur falcon (Falco amurensis)
红脚鲣鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) red-footed booby (Sula sula)
红脚鹬	hong	yu	(bird species of China) common redshank (Tringa totanus)
红脸鸬鹚	hong	ci	(bird species of China) red-faced cormorant (Urile urile)
红腰朱雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) red-mantled rosefinch (Carpodacus rhodochlamys)
红腹咬鹃	hong	juan	(bird species of China) Ward's trogon (Harpactes wardi)
红腹山雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) Père David's tit; rusty-breasted tit (Poecile davidi)
红腹滨鹬	hong	yu	(bird species of China) red knot (Calidris canutus)
红腹灰雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) Eurasian bullfinch (Pyrrhula pyrrhula)
红腹红尾鸲	hong	qu	(bird species of China) Güldenstädt's redstart; white-winged redstart (Phoenicurus erythrogastrus)
红腹角雉	hong	zhi	(bird species of China) Temminck's tragopan (Tragopan temminckii)
红腹锦鸡	hong	ji	(bird species of China) golden pheasant (Chrysolophus pictus)
红腿小隼	hong	sun	(bird species of China) collared falconet (Microhierax caerulescens)
红腿斑秧鸡	hong	ji	(bird species of China) red-legged crake (Rallina fasciata)
红臂章	hong	zhang	(southern dialects) red armband
红色娘子军	hong	jun	Red Detachment of Women, revolutionary opera that premiered in 1964
红色旅游	hong	you	red tourism, focused on sites in China associated with the Communist Revolution
红色炸弹	hong	dan	(jocular) wedding invitation (lit. "red bomb", because wedding invitations use red paper, and invitees are expected to give a substantial sum of money as a wedding gift)
红色高棉	hong	mian	Khmer Rouge, Cambodian political party
红艳艳	hong	yan	brilliant red
红花岗	hong	gang	see 紅花崗區|红花岗区[Hong2 hua1 gang3 Qu1]
红花岗区	hong	qu	Honghuagang, a district of Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
红茶菌	hong	jun	kombucha (fermented tea)
红药水	hong	shui	mercurochrome (antiseptic solution)
红菜头	hong	tou	beet; beetroot; (dialect) carrot
红萝卜	hong	bo	carrot; red radish
红血球	hong	qiu	erythrocyte; red blood cell
红血球生成素	hong	su	erythropoietin (EPO)
红衣主教	hong	jiao	Catholic cardinal
红角鸮	hong	xiao	(bird species of China) oriental scops owl (Otus sunia)
红谷滩	hong	tan	see 紅穀灘區|红谷滩区[Hong2 gu3 tan1 Qu1]
红谷滩区	hong	qu	Honggutan, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
红豆杉醇	hong	chun	Taxol (a.k.a. Paclitaxel), mitotic inhibitor used in cancer chemotherapy
红豆沙	hong	sha	red bean paste
红超巨星	hong	xing	red supergiant (star)
红辣椒	hong	jiao	hot red pepper; chili
红通通	hong	tong	variant of 紅彤彤|红彤彤[hong2 tong1 tong1]
红醋栗	hong	li	red currant
红铃虫	hong	chong	pink bollworm; Pectinophora gassypiella
红霉素	hong	su	(pharmacology) erythromycin
红顶绿鸠	hong	jiu	(bird species of China) whistling green pigeon; Taiwan green pigeon (Treron formosae)
红顶鹛	hong	mei	(bird species of China) chestnut-capped babbler (Timalia pileata)
红领巾	hong	jin	red neckscarf; by extension, a member of the Young Pioneers
红领绿鹦鹉	hong	wu	(bird species of China) rose-ringed parakeet (Psittacula krameri)
红颈滨鹬	hong	yu	(bird species of China) red-necked stint (Calidris ruficollis)
红颈瓣蹼鹬	hong	yu	(bird species of China) red-necked phalarope (Phalaropus lobatus)
红颈绿啄木鸟	hong	niao	(bird species of China) red-collared woodpecker (Picus rabieri)
红颈苇鹀	hong	wu	(bird species of China) ochre-rumped bunting; Japanese reed bunting (Emberiza yessoensis)
红颜知己	hong	ji	close female friend; confidante
红颜祸水	hong	shui	femme fatale
红颜薄命	hong	ming	beautiful women suffer unhappy fates (idiom)
红额穗鹛	hong	mei	(bird species of China) rufous-fronted babbler (Cyanoderma rufifrons)
红额金翅雀	hong	que	(bird species of China) European goldfinch (Carduelis carduelis)
红马甲	hong	jia	red waistcoat; (stock market) floor trader; floor broker
红骨髓	hong	sui	red bone marrow; hematopoietic marrow
红高粱	hong	liang	red sorghum
红魔鬼	hong	gui	Red Devils, nickname of Manchester United Football Club
红黑名单	hong	dan	whitelist and blacklist, i.e. 紅名單|红名单[hong2 ming2 dan1] and 黑名單|黑名单[hei1 ming2 dan1]
纤尘不染	xian	ran	see 一塵不染|一尘不染[yi1 chen2 bu4 ran3]
纤悉无遗	xian	yi	detailed and nothing left out (idiom); meticulous and comprehensive; not missing an iota
纤毛动力蛋白	xian	bai	ciliary dynein protein
纤维丛	xian	cong	fiber bundle (math.)
纤维囊泡症	xian	zheng	cystic fibrosis
纤维状	xian	zhuang	fibrous
纤维素	xian	su	cellulose
纤维肌痛	xian	tong	fibromyalgia
纤维胶	xian	jiao	viscose
纤维蛋白	xian	bai	fibrous protein
纤芯直径	xian	jing	core diameter (of a fiber)
约书亚	yue	ya	Joshua (name)
约书亚记	yue	ji	Book of Joshua
约会对象	yue	xiang	partner for dating; a date (boyfriend or girlfriend)
约伯记	yue	ji	Book of Job (in the Old Testament)
约但河	yue	he	variant of 約旦河|约旦河[Yue1 dan4 He2]
约克郡	yue	jun	Yorkshire (English region)
约定俗成	yue	cheng	established by popular usage (idiom); common usage agreement; customary convention
约定资讯速率	yue	lv	committed information rate (Frame Relay); CIR
约当现金	yue	jin	cash equivalent (accountancy)
约拿书	yue	shu	Book of Jonah
约旦河	yue	he	Jordan River (in southwestern Asia)
约束力	yue	li	(of a contract) binding (law)
约束条件	yue	jian	restrictive condition; constraint
约沙法	yue	fa	Jehoshaphat, fourth king of Judah (Judaism)
约法三章	yue	zhang	to agree on three laws (idiom); three-point covenant; (fig.) preliminary agreement
约珥书	yue	shu	Book of Joel
约瑟夫	yue	fu	Joseph (name)
约略估计	yue	ji	approximate estimate; to reckon roughly
约等于	yue	yu	approximately equal to
约维克	yao	ke	Gjøvik (city in Oppland, Norway)
约翰一书	yue	shu	First epistle of St John
约翰三书	yue	shu	Third epistle of St John
约翰二书	yue	shu	Second epistle of St John
约翰保罗	yue	luo	John Paul (name); Pope John Paul II, Karol Józef Wojtyła (1920-2005), Pope 1978-2005
约翰内斯堡	yue	bao	Johannesburg, South Africa
约翰壹书	yue	shu	First epistle of St John; also written 約翰一書|约翰一书
约翰斯顿	yue	dun	Johnston, Johnson, Johnstone etc, name
约翰福音	yue	yin	Gospel according to St John
约翰贰书	yue	shu	Second epistle of St John; also written 約翰二書|约翰二书
约翰逊	yue	xun	Johnson or Johnston (name)
约西亚	yue	ya	Josiah or Yoshiyahu (649-609 BC), a king of Judah (Judaism)
纨绔子弟	wan	di	(idiom) hedonistic son of rich parents
纨裤子弟	wan	di	variant of 紈絝子弟|纨绔子弟[wan2 ku4 zi3 di4]
纪传体	ji	ti	history genre based on biography, such as Sima Qian's Record of the Historian
纪伯伦	ji	lun	Khalil Gibran (1883-1931), Lebanese poet, writer and artist
纪元前	ji	qian	before the common era (BC)
纪录片	ji	pian	newsreel; documentary (film or TV program); CL:部[bu4]
纪律检查委员会	ji	hui	Central Commission for Discipline Inspection of the CCP
纪念册	ji	ce	commemorative album; autograph book; (graduation) yearbook
纪念品	ji	pin	souvenir; memento
纪念堂	ji	tang	memorial hall; mausoleum
纪念奖	ji	jiang	trophy
纪念币	ji	bi	commemorative coin
纪念日	ji	ri	day of commemoration; memorial day
纪念碑	ji	bei	monument
纪念章	ji	zhang	memorial badge; souvenir badge; CL:枚[mei2]
纪念邮票	ji	piao	commemorative postage stamp
纪念钞	ji	chao	commemorative banknote
纪念馆	ji	guan	memorial museum; memorial hall
纬线圈	wei	quan	line of latitude; parallel
纯净水	chun	shui	purified water
纯利益	chun	yi	net profit; net gain
纯合子	chun	zi	(genetics) homozygote
纯文字	chun	zi	text-only (webpage, slide etc)
纯文本	chun	ben	(computing) plain text
纯牛奶	chun	nai	pure milk
纯真天然	chun	ran	natural; authentic
纯真无垢	chun	gou	pure of heart
纯粹数学	chun	xue	pure mathematics
纯素颜	chun	yan	see 素顏|素颜[su4 yan2]
纯素食	chun	shi	vegan; vegan food
纯素食主义	chun	yi	veganism, a diet consisting solely of plant products; strict vegetarianism
纯素食者	chun	zhe	a vegan; person following a vegan diet
纯色啄花鸟	chun	niao	(bird species of China) plain flowerpecker (Dicaeum minullum)
纯色噪鹛	chun	mei	(bird species of China) scaly laughingthrush (Trochalopteron subunicolor)
纯色岩燕	chun	yan	(bird species of China) dusky crag martin (Ptyonoprogne concolor)
纯蓝仙鹟	chun	weng	(bird species of China) pale blue flycatcher (Cyornis unicolor)
纯血统	chun	tong	pure-blood; full-blood
纯褐鹱	chun	hu	(bird species of China) Bulwer's petrel (Bulweria bulwerii)
纯音乐	chun	yue	instrumental music
纱布口罩	sha	zhao	gauze mask
纲举目张	gang	zhang	if you lift the headrope the meshes spread open (idiom); take care of the big things and the little things will take care of themselves; (of a piece of writing) well-structured and ordered
纳什维尔	na	er	Nashville, capital of Tennessee
纳兰性德	na	de	Nalan Xingde (1655-1685), Manchu ethnic Qing dynasty poet
纳匝肋	na	lei	Nazareth
纳卫星	na	xing	nanosatellite
纳吉布	na	bu	Mohamed Naguib (1901–1984), first president of the Republic of Egypt; Najib Razak (1953–), Malaysian politician, prime minister 2009–2018
纳塔乃耳	na	er	Nathaniel
纳尔逊	na	xun	Horatio Nelson (1758-1805), British naval hero
纳尼亚	na	ya	Narnia, children's fantasy world in stories by C.S. Lewis
纳尼亚传奇	na	qi	The Chronicles of Narnia, children's stories by C.S. Lewis
纳扎尔巴耶夫	na	fu	Nursultan Nazarbayev (1940-), president of Kazakhstan 1990-2019
纳斯达克	na	ke	Nasdaq (stock exchange)
纳木错	na	cuo	Namtso or Lake Nam (officially Nam Co), mountain lake at Nakchu in central Tibet
纳杰夫	na	fu	Najaf (city in Iraq, a Shia holy city)
纳洛酮	na	tong	naloxone (medication) (loanword)
纳溪区	na	qu	Naxi, a district of Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
纳瓦特尔语	na	yu	Nahuatl (language)
纳瓦萨	na	sa	Navassa
纳瓦霍	na	huo	Navajo
纳皮尔	na	er	Napier (name); John Napier (1550-1617), Scottish mathematician, inventor of logarithms; Napier, city in New Zealand
纳税人	na	ren	taxpayer
纳米技术	na	shu	nanotechnology
纳米比亚	na	ya	Namibia
纳粹主义	na	yi	Nazism
纳粹党	na	dang	Nazi Party; Nationalsozialistische Deutsche Arbeiterpartei (NSDAP) (1919-1945)
纳粹分子	na	zi	Nazi
纳粹德国	na	guo	Nazi Germany (1933-1945)
纳西族	na	zu	Nakhi ethnic group
纳豆菌	na	jun	Bacillus subtilis (formerly Bacillus natto), a common soil bacterium
纳赛尔	na	er	Nasr or Nasser (Arab name); Gamal Abdel Nasser (1918-1970), Egyptian President
纳赫雄	na	xiong	Nahshon (name)
纳达尔	na	er	Nadal (name); Rafael Nadal (1986-), Spanish tennis player
纳闷儿	na	r	erhua variant of 納悶|纳闷[na4 men4]
纳雍县	na	xian	Nayong, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
纳霍德卡	na	ka	Nakhodka (city in Russia)
纳骨塔	na	ta	columbarium
纵剖面	zong	mian	vertical section; longitudinal section
纵坐标	zong	biao	vertical coordinate; ordinate
纵断面	zong	mian	vertical section; longitudinal section
纵横交错	zong	cuo	criss-crossed (idiom)
纵横字谜	zong	mi	crossword
纵横家	zong	jia	School of Diplomacy of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC) whose leading advocates were Su Qin 蘇秦|苏秦[Su1 Qin2] and Zhang Yi 張儀|张仪[Zhang4 Yi2]
纵横驰骋	zong	cheng	to criss-cross; to run unhindered across the whole country
纵火犯	zong	fan	arsonist
纵纹绿鹎	zong	bei	(bird species of China) striated bulbul (Alcurus striatus)
纵纹腹小鸮	zong	xiao	(bird species of China) little owl (Athene noctua)
纵纹角鸮	zong	xiao	(bird species of China) pallid scops owl (Otus brucei)
纵虎归山	zong	shan	lit. to let the tiger return to the mountain; fig. to store up future calamities
纷纷扬扬	fen	yang	(idiom) (of leaves etc) fluttering about
纷至沓来	fen	lai	to come thick and fast (idiom)
纸上谈兵	zhi	bing	lit. military tactics on paper (idiom); fig. theoretical discussion that is worse than useless in practice; armchair strategist
纸人纸马	zhi	ma	paper dolls for ritual use in the shape of people or animals
纸包不住火	zhi	huo	the truth will come out eventually; a secret can't be kept forever
纸包饮品	zhi	pin	juice box; drink in a carton; Tetra Pak drink
纸叶子	zhi	zi	deck of playing cards
纸尿布	zhi	bu	disposable diaper
纸尿片	zhi	pian	disposable diaper
纸尿裤	zhi	ku	disposable diaper
纸火柴	zhi	chai	matches made of cardboard
纸火锅	zhi	guo	paper hot pot (hot pot using a single-use pot made of Japanese washi paper with a special coating to prevent burning and leaking, used for cooking at the dining table)
纸煤儿	zhi	r	paper taper used to light cigarette etc
纸片人	zhi	ren	extremely thin person; (ACG) 2D character (from anime, manga etc)
纸短情长	zhi	chang	(idiom) a piece of paper is too short to convey my feelings
纸老虎	zhi	hu	paper tiger
纸质书	zhi	shu	physical book; printed book
纸醉金迷	zhi	mi	lit. dazzling with paper and gold (idiom); fig. indulging in a life of luxury
纸飞机	zhi	ji	paper airplane
纸马儿	zhi	r	erhua variant of 紙馬|纸马[zhi3 ma3]
纸黄金	zhi	jin	gold contract; special drawing right (SDR); paper gold (finance)
纹丝不动	wen	dong	to not move a single jot (idiom)
纹丝儿	wen	r	erhua variant of 紋絲|纹丝[wen2 si1]
纹喉凤鹛	wen	mei	(bird species of China) stripe-throated yuhina (Yuhina gularis)
纹喉鹎	wen	bei	(bird species of China) stripe-throated bulbul (Pycnonotus finlaysoni)
纹头斑翅鹛	wen	mei	(bird species of China) hoary-throated barwing (Actinodura nipalensis)
纹缕儿	wen	r	erhua variant of 紋縷|纹缕[wen2 lu:3]
纹背捕蛛鸟	wen	niao	(bird species of China) streaked spiderhunter (Arachnothera magna)
纹胸啄木鸟	wen	niao	(bird species of China) stripe-breasted woodpecker (Dendrocopos atratus)
纹胸斑翅鹛	wen	mei	(bird species of China) streak-throated barwing (Actinodura waldeni)
纹胸织雀	wen	que	(bird species of China) streaked weaver (Ploceus manyar)
纹胸鹛	wen	mei	(bird species of China) pin-striped tit-babbler (Mixornis gularis)
纹胸鹪鹛	wen	mei	(bird species of China) eyebrowed wren-babbler (Napothera epilepidota)
纹风不动	wen	dong	absolutely still; fig. not the slightest change; also written 文風不動|文风不动
纺织厂	fang	chang	textile factory; cotton mill
纺织品	fang	pin	textile; fabrics
纺织娘	fang	niang	katydid; long-horned grasshopper
纺织工业	fang	ye	textile industry
纺织物	fang	wu	textile material
纽交所	niu	suo	New York Stock Exchange (abbr. for 紐約證券交易所|纽约证券交易所[Niu3 yue1 Zheng4 quan4 Jiao1 yi4 suo3])
纽伦堡	niu	bao	Nuremberg, town in Bavaria, Germany
纽几内亚	niu	ya	New Guinea; Papua-New Guinea
纽卡斯尔	niu	er	Newcastle (place name)
纽卡素	niu	su	Newcastle
纽奥良	niu	liang	New Orleans, Louisiana
纽扣电池	niu	chi	button cell
纽泽西	niu	xi	New Jersey, USA (Tw)
纽瓦克	niu	ke	Newark (place name)
纽约人	niu	ren	New Yorker
纽约大学	niu	xue	New York University
纽约客	niu	ke	The New Yorker, US magazine; resident of New York
纽约州	niu	zhou	New York state
纽约市	niu	shi	New York City
纽约帝国大厦	niu	sha	Empire State Building
纽约时报	niu	bao	New York Times (newspaper)
纽约证券交易所	niu	suo	New York Stock Exchange (NYSE)
纽约邮报	niu	bao	New York Post (newspaper)
纽芬兰	niu	lan	Newfoundland Island, Canada
纽芬兰与拉布拉多	niu	duo	Newfoundland and Labrador, province of Canada
纽西兰	niu	lan	New Zealand (Tw)
线上查询	xian	xun	online search
线尾燕	xian	yan	(bird species of China) wire-tailed swallow (Hirundo smithii)
线形图	xian	tu	line chart
线性代数	xian	shu	linear algebra
线性回归	xian	gui	linear regression (statistics)
线性图	xian	tu	line chart
线性方程	xian	cheng	linear equation (math.)
线性波	xian	bo	linear wave
线性空间	xian	jian	(math.) vector space; linear space
线性算子	xian	zi	linear operator (math.)
线性系统	xian	tong	linear system
线性规划	xian	hua	linear programming
线粒体	xian	ti	mitochondrion
线速度	xian	du	linear velocity
练习册	lian	ce	exercise booklet
练习场	lian	chang	driving range (golf); practice court; practice ground
练习本	lian	ben	exercise book; workbook; CL:本[ben3]
练习生	lian	sheng	(dated, except in Taiwan) trainee; apprentice; probationary employee; (entertainment) trainee performer undergoing systematic training prior to debut (esp. in idol groups)
组合拳	zu	quan	a combination of punches; (fig.) a set of measures
组合数学	zu	xue	combinatorial mathematics; combinatorics
组合论	zu	lun	combinatorics
组合音响	zu	xiang	hi-fi system; stereo sound system; abbr. to 音響|音响[yin1 xiang3]
组委会	zu	hui	organizing committee (abbr. for 組織委員會|组织委员会[zu3 zhi1 wei3 yuan2 hui4])
组成部分	zu	fen	part; component; ingredient
组氨酸	zu	suan	histidine (His), an essential amino acid
组织培养	zu	yang	tissue culture, esp. plant tissue culture
组织委员会	zu	hui	organizing committee; abbr. to 組委|组委
组织学	zu	xue	histology
组织法	zu	fa	organic law
组织者	zu	zhe	organizer
组织胞浆菌病	zu	bing	histoplasmosis
组织胺	zu	an	histamine
组装厂	zu	chang	assembly plant
细化管理	xi	li	micromanagement
细叶脉	xi	mai	veinlet in a leaf
细嘴短趾百灵	xi	ling	(bird species of China) Hume's short-toed lark (Calandrella acutirostris)
细嘴鸥	xi	ou	(bird species of China) slender-billed gull (Chroicocephalus genei)
细嘴黄鹂	xi	li	(bird species of China) slender-billed oriole (Oriolus tenuirostris)
细嚼慢咽	xi	yan	to eat slowly (idiom)
细声细气	xi	qi	in a fine voice (idiom); softly spoken
细大不捐	xi	juan	not to discard anything, whether small or big (idiom); all-embracing
细小病毒	xi	du	parvovirus
细小病毒科	xi	ke	Parvoviridae, a family of animal viruses
细尾獴	xi	meng	meerkat; see 狐獴[hu2 meng3]
细微末节	xi	jie	tiny insignificant details; niceties
细思极恐	xi	kong	scary to think about (coll.) (coined c. 2013)
细支气管炎	xi	yan	bronchiolitis
细明体	xi	ti	Mincho narrow font
细枝末节	xi	jie	minor details; trifles
细水长流	xi	liu	lit. thin streams flow forever; fig. economy will get you a long way; to work steadily at something little by little
细河区	xi	qu	Xihe, a district of Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
细皮嫩肉	xi	rou	soft skin and tender flesh (idiom); smooth-skinned
细磨刀石	xi	shi	whetstone (for honing knives)
细纹噪鹛	xi	mei	(bird species of China) streaked laughingthrush (Trochalopteron lineatum)
细纹苇莺	xi	ying	(bird species of China) speckled reed warbler (Acrocephalus sorghophilus)
细细品味	xi	wei	to savor; to relish
细胞分裂	xi	lie	cell division
细胞周期	xi	qi	cell cycle
细胞器	xi	qi	organelle
细胞因子	xi	zi	cytokine
细胞培养	xi	yang	cell culture
细胞培养器	xi	qi	cell cultivator
细胞壁	xi	bi	cell wall
细胞外液	xi	ye	extracellular fluid
细胞学	xi	xue	cytology
细胞广播	xi	bo	(Tw) (telecommunications) cell broadcast
细胞核	xi	he	nucleus (of cell)
细胞毒	xi	du	cytotoxin
细胞毒性	xi	xing	cytotoxicity
细胞生物学	xi	xue	cell biology
细胞破碎	xi	sui	(biotechnology) cell disruption
细胞膜	xi	mo	cell membrane
细胞色素	xi	su	cytochrome
细胞融合	xi	he	cell fusion
细胞质	xi	zhi	cytoplasm
细胞骨架	xi	jia	cytoskeleton (of a cell)
细菌性痢疾	xi	ji	bacillary dysentery
细菌战	xi	zhan	biological warfare; germ warfare
细菌武器	xi	qi	biological weapon (using germs)
细菌病毒	xi	du	bacteriophage; virus that infects bacteria
细菌群	xi	qun	bacterial community (e.g. in the gut)
细颈瓶	xi	ping	jug
细颗粒物	xi	wu	fine particle (PM 2.5); fine particulate matter (air pollution etc)
细香葱	xi	cong	chive
织女星	zhi	xing	Vega, brightest star in constellation Lyra 天琴星座
织布机	zhi	ji	loom
织田信长	zhi	chang	ODA Nobunaga (1534-1582), Japanese shogun (warlord), played an important role in unifying Japan
织金县	zhi	xian	Zhijin, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
织金锦	zhi	jin	gold brocade
终产物	zhong	wu	end product
终其天年	zhong	nian	(idiom) to live out one's natural lifespan
终南山	zhong	shan	Zhongnan Mountains, near Xi'an; also known as the Taiyi Mountains
终南捷径	zhong	jing	lit. the Mount Zhongnan shortcut (idiom); fig. shortcut to a high-flying career; easy route to success (an allusion to the Tang Dynasty story of 盧藏用|卢藏用[Lu2 Cang4 yong4], who lived like a hermit on Mt. Zhongnan in order to gain a reputation for wisdom, which he then used to gain a position in the Imperial Court)
终场锣声	zhong	sheng	the final bell (esp. in sports competition)
终天之恨	zhong	hen	eternal regret
终审法院	zhong	yuan	Court of Final Appeal
终年积雪	zhong	xue	permanent snow cover
终成泡影	zhong	ying	(idiom) to come to nothing
终成眷属	zhong	shu	see 有情人終成眷屬|有情人终成眷属[you3 qing2 ren2 zhong1 cheng2 juan4 shu3]
终期癌	zhong	ai	terminal cancer
终点地址	zhong	zhi	destination address
终点站	zhong	zhan	terminus; final stop on rail or bus line
终点线	zhong	xian	finishing line
终生伴侣	zhong	lv	lifelong partner or companion
终端机	zhong	ji	terminal
终端用户	zhong	hu	end user
终而复始	zhong	shi	lit. the end comes back to the start (idiom); the wheel comes full circle
终身俸	zhong	feng	(Tw) pension (for retired military, civil service and teaching personnel)
终身制	zhong	zhi	life tenure
终身大事	zhong	shi	major turning point of lifelong import (esp. marriage)
终身监禁	zhong	jin	life sentence
绊脚石	ban	shi	stumbling block; obstacle; someone who gets in your way
绍兴市	shao	shi	Shaoxing, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
绍兴酒	shao	jiu	Shaoxing wine a.k.a. "yellow wine", traditional Chinese wine made from glutinous rice and wheat
绍莫吉州	shao	zhou	Somogy, a county in southwest Hungary, capital 考波什堡[Kao3 bo1 shi2 bao3]
经不住	jing	zhu	to be unable to bear
经不起	jing	qi	can't stand it; to be unable to bear; to be unable to resist
经不起推究	jing	jiu	does not bear examination
经丝彩色显花	jing	hua	warp brocade; woven fabric with single woof but colored warp
经久不息	jing	xi	(idiom) prolonged (applause, cheering etc)
经久不衰	jing	shuai	unfailing; never-ending
经信委	jing	wei	Economy and Informatization Commission
经典场论	jing	lun	classical field theory (physics)
经典案例	jing	li	case study; classic example
经合组织	jing	zhi	Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, OECD; abbr. for 經濟合作與發展組織|经济合作与发展组织
经常账户	jing	hu	(economics) current account
经年累月	jing	yue	for years; over the years
经得起	jing	qi	to be able to withstand; to be able to endure
经手人	jing	ren	the person in charge; agent; broker
经气聚集	jing	ji	meeting points of qi (in Chinese medicine)
经济人	jing	ren	Homo economicus
经济体	jing	ti	an economy; a country (or region etc) viewed as an economic entity
经济体制	jing	zhi	economic system
经济体系	jing	xi	economic system
经济作物	jing	wu	cash crop (economics)
经济制裁	jing	cai	economic sanctions
经济前途	jing	tu	economic future; economic outlook
经济力量	jing	liang	economic strength
经济危机	jing	ji	economic crisis
经济发展	jing	zhan	economic development
经济合作与发展组织	jing	zhi	Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD); abbr. to 經合組織|经合组织
经济周期	jing	qi	economic cycle
经济困境	jing	jing	economic difficulty
经济基础	jing	chu	socio-economic base; economic foundation
经济增加值	jing	zhi	Economic value added, EVA
经济增长	jing	zhang	economic growth
经济增长率	jing	lv	economic growth rate
经济学	jing	xue	economics (as a field of study)
经济学人	jing	ren	The Economist (magazine)
经济学家	jing	jia	economist
经济学者	jing	zhe	economist
经济安全	jing	quan	economic security
经济座	jing	zuo	economy seat
经济情况	jing	kuang	economic situation; one's socio-economic status
经济改革	jing	ge	economic reform
经济有效	jing	xiao	cost-effective
经济活动	jing	dong	economic activity
经济特区	jing	qu	special economic zone
经济状况	jing	kuang	economic situation
经济界	jing	jie	economic circles
经济舱	jing	cang	economy class
经济萧条	jing	tiao	economic depression
经济落后	jing	hou	economically backward
经济衰退	jing	tui	(economic) recession
经济问题	jing	ti	economic problem
经纪人	jing	ren	broker; middleman; agent
经纬仪	jing	yi	theodolite
经纬密度	jing	du	(textiles) thread count
经纬线	jing	xian	lines of latitude and longitude; warp and woof
经营者	jing	zhe	executive; manager; transactor
经营费用	jing	yong	business cost; business expense
经销商	jing	shang	dealer; seller; distributor
经验丰富	jing	fu	experienced; with ample experience
经验主义	jing	yi	empiricism
绑赴市曹	bang	cao	to bind up and take to the market (idiom); to take a prisoner to the town center for execution
绒毛性腺激素	rong	su	human chorionic gonadotropin (HCG)
绒螯蟹	rong	xie	mitten crab (Eriocheir sinensis)
结伴而行	jie	xing	(of a group) to stay together; to keep together
结党营私	jie	si	(idiom) to form a clique for self-serving purposes
结合律	jie	lv	associative law (xy)z = x(yz) (math.)
结婚生子	jie	zi	to get married and have kids; to start a family
结婚纪念日	jie	ri	wedding anniversary
结婚证	jie	zheng	marriage certificate
结对子	jie	zi	(of two parties, e.g. police and the community) to team up; to pair up; to form a cooperative association
结晶体	jie	ti	a crystal
结晶学	jie	xue	crystallography
结晶水	jie	shui	water of crystallization
结晶状	jie	zhuang	crystalline
结束语	jie	yu	concluding remarks
结构主义	jie	yi	structuralism
结构助词	jie	ci	structural particle, such as 的[de5], 地[de5], 得[de5] and 所[suo3]
结构式	jie	shi	structural formula (chemistry)
结构性	jie	xing	structural
结构理论	jie	lun	structural theory (physics)
结核杆菌	jie	jun	tubercle bacillus
结核病	jie	bing	tuberculosis
结核菌素	jie	su	tubercule bacillus
结梁子	jie	zi	(slang) to start a feud; to have a beef
结球甘蓝	jie	lan	cabbage
结社自由	jie	you	(constitutional) freedom of association
结结巴巴	jie	ba	stammeringly
结缔组织	jie	zhi	connective tissue
结肠炎	jie	yan	colitis (medicine)
结肠镜	jie	jing	colonoscope; colonoscopy (abbr. for 結腸鏡檢查|结肠镜检查[jie2 chang2 jing4 jian3 cha2])
结肠镜检查	jie	cha	colonoscopy
结膜炎	jie	yan	conjunctivitis
结草衔环	jie	huan	to repay sb's kind acts (idiom)
结队成群	jie	qun	see 成群結隊|成群结队[cheng2 qun2 jie2 dui4]
绕一圈	rao	quan	to go around one time; to do a circuit
绕口令	rao	ling	tongue-twister
绕圈子	rao	zi	to go around in circles; to make a detour; (fig.) to beat about the bush
绕弯儿	rao	r	to go for a walk around; (fig.) to speak in a roundabout way
绕弯子	rao	zi	lit. to go on a long detour; fig. to speak vaguely around the topic without getting to the point; to beat about the bush
绕弯子儿	rao	r	lit. to go on a long detour; fig. to speak vaguely around the topic without getting to the point; to beat about the bush
绕来绕去	rao	qu	meandering and circuitous (idiom); to go around in circles and never get anywhere
绕梁三日	rao	ri	reverberates around the rafters for three days (idiom); fig. sonorous and resounding (esp. of singing voice)
绕脖子	rao	zi	tricky; involved; to beat about the bush
绕膝承欢	rao	huan	to live with one's parents, thus bringing them happiness (idiom)
绕远儿	rao	r	to go the long way round; to take a circuitous route; (of a route) circuitous
绘声绘色	hui	se	vivid and colorful (idiom); true to life; lively and realistic
绘文字	hui	zi	emoji
绘架座	hui	zuo	Pictor (constellation)
给你点颜色看看	gei	kan	(I'll) teach you a lesson; put you in your place
给排水	ji	shui	water supply and drainage
给皂器	ji	qi	soap dispenser
给脸不要脸	gei	lian	(coll.) to respond with arrogance or disrespect when shown courtesy; to abuse sb's goodwill
给面子	gei	zi	to show deference or praise publicly
绚丽多彩	xuan	cai	(idiom) bright and colorful; gorgeous; magnificent
络绎不绝	luo	jue	(idiom) continuously; in an endless stream
络腮胡子	luo	zi	full beard
绝世佳人	jue	ren	a woman of unmatched beauty (idiom)
绝代佳人	jue	ren	beauty unmatched in her generation (idiom); woman of peerless elegance; prettiest girl ever
绝口不提	jue	ti	(idiom) to avoid mentioning
绝命书	jue	shu	suicide note
绝处逢生	jue	sheng	(idiom) to find a way to survive when everything seems hopeless
绝大多数	jue	shu	the vast majority
绝大部分	jue	fen	overwhelming majority
绝密文件	jue	jian	top secret document; classified papers
绝对值	jue	zhi	absolute value
绝对地址	jue	zhi	absolute address (computing)
绝对多数	jue	shu	absolute majority
绝对大多数	jue	shu	absolute majority
绝对数字	jue	zi	absolute (as opposed to relative) number
绝对权	jue	quan	(law) absolute rights; erga omnes rights
绝对温度	jue	du	absolute temperature
绝对湿度	jue	du	absolute humidity
绝对观念	jue	nian	absolute idea (in Hegel's philosophy)
绝对连续	jue	xu	absolutely continuous (math.)
绝对零度	jue	du	absolute zero
绝无仅有	jue	you	one and only (idiom); rarely seen; unique of its kind
绝热漆	jue	qi	heat-resistant paint
绝绝子	jue	zi	(slang) absolutely amazing
绝缘体	jue	ti	electrical insulation; heat insulation
绝门儿	jue	r	extinct profession; lost trade; unique skill
绝顶聪明	jue	ming	highly intelligent; brilliant
绝食抗议	jue	yi	hunger strike
绞刑架	jiao	jia	gibbet; hanging post
绞尽脑汁	jiao	zhi	to rack one's brains
绞肉机	jiao	ji	meat grinder
绞股蓝	jiao	lan	jiaogulan (Gynostemma pentaphyllum)
绞脑汁	jiao	zhi	to rack one's brains
统一体	tong	ti	whole; single entity
统一发票	tong	piao	uniform invoice, a standardized government-issued invoice used in Taiwan for recording financial transactions, including purchases and sales, and also serving as a ticket for a lottery program to promote transparency and tax compliance
统一口径	tong	jing	to adopt a unified approach to discussing an issue; to sing from the same hymn sheet
统一思想	tong	xiang	with the same idea in mind; with a common purpose
统一性	tong	xing	unity
统一战线	tong	xian	united front
统一战线工作部	tong	bu	United Front Work Department of CCP Central Committee (UFWD)
统一招生	tong	sheng	national unified entrance exam
统一新罗	tong	luo	unified Silla (658-935), Korean kingdom
统一码	tong	ma	Unicode
统一社会信用代码	tong	ma	unified social credit identifier, the VAT identification number of a business or organization
统一编号	tong	hao	(Tw) the VAT identification number of a business or organization
统一规划	tong	hua	integrated program
统一资源定位符	tong	fu	universal resource locator (URL), i.e. webaddress
统一超商	tong	shang	(Tw) President Chain Store Corp., the operator of the 7-Eleven convenience store chain in Taiwan
统战部	tong	bu	United Front Work Department of CCP Central Committee (UFWD); abbr. for 統一戰線工作部|统一战线工作部[Tong3 yi1 Zhan4 xian4 Gong1 zuo4 bu4]
统治力	tong	li	dominance; supremacy
统治权	tong	quan	sovereignty; dominion; dominance
统治者	tong	zhe	ruler
统称为	tong	wei	collectively known as; to call sth as a group
统筹兼顾	tong	gu	an overall plan taking into account all factors
统计员	tong	yuan	statistician
统计学	tong	xue	statistics
统计数据	tong	ju	statistical data
统计结果	tong	guo	statistical results
统计表	tong	biao	statistical table; chart
统购派购	tong	gou	unified government purchase at fixed price (esp of farm products)
统购统销	tong	xiao	state monopoly of purchasing and marketing
绣球花	xiu	hua	hydrangea
绣球藤	xiu	teng	Clematis montana
绣花鞋	xiu	xie	embroidered shoes
绥中县	sui	xian	Suizhong, a county in Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
绥化市	sui	shi	Suihua, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
绥宁县	sui	xian	Suining, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
绥德县	sui	xian	Suide, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
绥棱县	sui	xian	Suiling, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
绥江县	sui	xian	Suijiang, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
绥滨县	sui	xian	Suibin, a county in Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
绥芬河	sui	he	Suifen River, a river in China and Russia that flows into the Sea of Japan
绥芬河市	sui	shi	Suifenhe, a county-level city in Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
绥远省	sui	sheng	former Suiyuan province in Inner Mongolia and Shanxi
绥阳县	sui	xian	Suiyang, a county in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
绥靖主义	sui	yi	appeasement
绦虫纲	tao	gang	Cestoda (an order of flatworms)
继任者	ji	zhe	successor
继兄弟姐妹	ji	mei	step-siblings
继子女	ji	nv	stepchildren; adopted children
继往开来	ji	lai	to follow the past and herald the future (idiom); part of a historical transition; forming a bridge between earlier and later stages
继承人	ji	ren	heir; successor
继承权	ji	quan	right of inheritance
继承者	ji	zhe	successor
继承衣钵	ji	bo	to take up sb's mantle; to follow in sb's steps
继父母	ji	mu	step-parents
继电器	ji	qi	(electrical) relay
继续教育	ji	yu	continuing education
绩优股	ji	gu	gilt-edged stock; blue chip stock
绩溪县	ji	xian	Jixi, a county in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
绫罗绸缎	ling	duan	(idiom) silk and satin
续发感染	xu	ran	secondary infection
续西游记	xu	ji	one of three Ming dynasty sequels to Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
续随子	xu	zi	caper (Capparis spinosa)
绮想曲	qi	qu	capriccio (music)
绮色佳	qi	jia	Ithaca, New York, location of Cornell University 康奈爾大學|康奈尔大学[Kang1 nai4 er3 Da4 xue2]
绯胸鹦鹉	fei	wu	(bird species of China) red-breasted parakeet (Psittacula alexandri)
绰绰有余	chuo	yu	(idiom) more than enough
绳之以法	sheng	fa	to punish according to the law; to bring to justice
绳索套	sheng	tao	a noose
维也纳	wei	na	Vienna, capital of Austria
维京人	wei	ren	Viking
维他命	wei	ming	(loanword) vitamin
维克托	wei	tuo	Victor (name)
维吉尔	wei	er	Virgil or Vergilius (70-19 BC), Roman poet and author of the Aeneid 埃涅阿斯紀|埃涅阿斯纪[Ai1 nie4 a1 si1 Ji4]
维吉尼亚	wei	ya	Virginia, US state (Tw)
维吾尔	wei	er	Uyghur ethnic group
维吾尔人	wei	ren	Uighur person or people
维吾尔族	wei	zu	Uyghur ethnic group
维吾尔语	wei	yu	Uighur language
维基媒体基金会	wei	hui	Wikimedia Foundation
维基数据	wei	ju	Wikistats, (stats.wikimedia.org), online tool providing statistics for Wikimedia projects
维基物种	wei	zhong	Wikispecies, (species.wikimedia.org), online project to catalog all known species
维基百科	wei	ke	Wikipedia (online encyclopedia)
维基解密	wei	mi	WikiLeaks
维基词典	wei	dian	Wiktionary (online dictionary)
维多利亚	wei	ya	(name) Victoria; (place name) Victoria (capital of the Seychelles, southeastern state in Australia etc)
维多利亚公园	wei	yuan	Victoria Park, Hong Kong
维多利亚女王	wei	wang	Queen Victoria (reigned 1837-1901)
维多利亚岛	wei	dao	Victoria Island
维多利亚州	wei	zhou	Victoria, southeastern Australian state
维多利亚港	wei	gang	Victoria Harbor, Hong Kong
维多利亚湖	wei	hu	Lake Victoria or Victoria Nyanza, Kenya, on the White Nile
维多利亚瀑布	wei	bu	Victoria Falls or Mosi-oa-Tunya on the Zambesi River, between Zambia and Zimbabwe
维妙维肖	wei	xiao	to imitate to perfection; to be remarkably true to life
维它命	wei	ming	variant of 維他命|维他命[wei2 ta1 ming4]
维尔容	wei	rong	(Johannes Lodewikus) Viljoen (South African ambassador to Taiwan)
维尔斯特拉斯	wei	si	Karl Weierstrass (1815-1897), German mathematician
维尔纽斯	wei	si	Vilnius, capital of Lithuania
维尼熊	wei	xiong	Winnie the Pooh
维尼纶	wei	lun	see 維綸|维纶[wei2 lun2]
维德角	wei	jiao	Cape Verde (Tw)
维恩图解	wei	jie	Venn diagram
维护和平	wei	ping	to uphold peace
维拉港	wei	gang	Port Vila, capital of Vanuatu
维持原判	wei	pan	to affirm the original sentence (law)
维持生活	wei	huo	to subsist; to eke out a living; to keep body and soul together
维持费	wei	fei	maintenance costs
维新变法	wei	fa	Hundred Days Reform (1898), failed attempt to reform the Qing dynasty
维新派	wei	pai	the reformist faction
维权人士	wei	shi	civil rights activist
维特根斯坦	wei	tan	Wittgenstein (name); Ludwig Wittgenstein (1889-1951), Austrian-British philosopher
维生素	wei	su	vitamin
维管束	wei	shu	vascular bundle (botany)
维管束植物	wei	wu	vascular plants; tracheophytes (botany)
维管柱	wei	zhu	vascular column
维纳斯	wei	si	Venus (mythology, Roman goddess of love)
维维安	wei	an	(name) Vivian; Vivien; Vivienne
维罗纳	wei	na	Verona
维西傈僳族自治县	wei	xian	Weixi Lisu Autonomous County, in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
维西县	wei	xian	see 維西傈僳族自治縣|维西傈僳族自治县[Wei2 xi1 Li4 su4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
绵白糖	mian	tang	sugar powder
绵竹市	mian	shi	Mianzhu, a county-level city in Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
绵绵不绝	mian	jue	continuous; endless
绵绵瓜瓞	mian	die	(lit.) (of a melon vine) laden with melons of all sizes (idiom); (fig.) (of descendants) to thrive and prosper for generations
绵里藏针	mian	zhen	lit. a needle concealed in silk floss (idiom); fig. ruthless character behind a gentle appearance; a wolf in sheep's clothing
绵阳市	mian	shi	Mianyang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
绷不住	beng	zhu	(Internet slang) can't contain oneself; unable to bear; can't help (doing sth)
绷着脸	beng	lian	to have a taut face; to pull a long face; to look displeased
综上所述	zong	shu	to summarize; to sum up
综合业务数字网	zong	wang	Integrated Services Digital Network (ISDN) (computing)
综合叙述	zong	shu	to summarize; a summary
综合布线	zong	xian	integrated wiring
综合征	zong	zheng	syndrome
综合性	zong	xing	synthesis
综合报导	zong	dao	summary report; press release; brief
综合报道	zong	dao	comprehensive report; consolidated report
综合格斗	zong	dou	mixed martial arts (MMA)
综合法	zong	fa	synthesis; synthetic reasoning
综合症	zong	zheng	syndrome
综合艺术	zong	shu	composite arts; multimedia arts
综合馆	zong	guan	complex (group of buildings)
综艺节目	zong	mu	variety show
绿化带	lv	dai	landscaped green strip; planted green belt
绿叶菜	lv	cai	leafy green vegetable; leafy greens
绿叶蔬菜	lv	cai	leafy green vegetable; leafy greens
绿喉太阳鸟	lv	niao	(bird species of China) green-tailed sunbird (Aethopyga nipalensis)
绿喉蜂虎	lv	hu	(bird species of China) Asian green bee-eater (Merops orientalis)
绿嘴地鹃	lv	juan	(bird species of China) green-billed malkoha (Phaenicophaeus tristis)
绿园区	lu	qu	Luyuan, a district of Changchun City 長春市|长春市[Chang2 chun1 Shi4], Jilin
绿头巾	lv	jin	green turban (figuratively, a symbol of being a cuckold)
绿头鸭	lv	ya	(bird species of China) mallard (Anas platyrhynchos)
绿女红男	lv	nan	young people decked out in gorgeous clothes (idiom)
绿孔雀	lv	que	(bird species of China) green peafowl (Pavo muticus)
绿宝石	lv	shi	beryl
绿宽嘴鸫	lv	dong	(bird species of China) green cochoa (Cochoa viridis)
绿尾虹雉	lv	zhi	(bird species of China) Chinese monal (Lophophorus lhuysii)
绿帽子	lv	zi	green hat (figuratively, a symbol of being a cuckold)
绿惨红愁	lv	chou	(of women) grieved appearance (idiom); sorrowful mien
绿旗兵	lv	bing	same as 綠營|绿营[lu:4 ying2], Green standard army, standing infantry during Qing dynasty, originally formed from Ming and other Chinese army units
绿春县	lv	xian	Lüchun, a county in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
绿松石	lv	shi	turquoise (gemstone)
绿林好汉	lu	han	(idiom) chivalrous hero, often one who combats injustice or fights for a noble cause (originally referred to a group of outlaws who assembled in 綠林|绿林[Lu4 lin2])
绿林豪客	lu	ke	see 綠林好漢|绿林好汉[lu4 lin2 hao3 han4]
绿树成荫	lv	yin	(idiom) (of an area) to have trees with shade-giving foliage; (of a road) to be tree-lined
绿油油	lv	you	lush green; verdant
绿泡泡	lv	pao	(Internet slang) WeChat; (metonym) WeChat account
绿泥石	lv	shi	chlorite (geology)
绿玉髓	lv	sui	(mineralogy) chrysoprase
绿玛瑙	lv	nao	chrysoprase (mineral)
绿皇鸠	lv	jiu	(bird species of China) green imperial pigeon (Ducula aenea)
绿皮书	lv	shu	green paper (government report proposing policies and inviting discussion)
绿皮车	lv	che	green train (slow, noisy, unairconditioned train with forest green livery and yellow trim that ran on the Chinese railway system from the 1950s, phased out in the early 21st century)
绿翅短脚鹎	lv	bei	(bird species of China) mountain bulbul (Ixos mcclellandii)
绿翅金鸠	lv	jiu	(bird species of China) common emerald dove (Chalcophaps indica)
绿翅鸭	lv	ya	(bird species of China) Eurasian teal (Anas crecca)
绿背姬鹟	lv	weng	(bird species of China) green-backed flycatcher (Ficedula elisae)
绿背山雀	lv	que	(bird species of China) green-backed tit (Parus monticolus)
绿背林鹟	lv	weng	(bird species of China) fulvous-chested jungle flycatcher (Rhinomyias olivacea)
绿胸八色鸫	lv	dong	(bird species of China) western hooded pitta (Pitta sordida)
绿脚山鹧鸪	lv	gu	(bird species of China) green-legged partridge (Arborophila chloropus)
绿色和平	lv	ping	Greenpeace (environmental network)
绿色通道	lv	dao	green channel (customs clearance without document or cargo inspection); (by extension) priority processing; fast track
绿色食品	lv	pin	clean, unadulterated food product; organic food
绿花椰菜	lv	cai	broccoli
绿花菜	lv	cai	broccoli
绿茵场	lv	chang	football field
绿茶婊	lv	biao	(slang) (derog.) a woman who appears innocent or gentle but is actually calculating and manipulative
绿草如茵	lv	yin	green grass like cushion (idiom); green meadow so inviting to sleep on
绿莹莹	lv	ying	green and lush
绿菜花	lv	hua	broccoli
绿营兵	lv	bing	Green standard army, standing infantry during Qing dynasty, originally formed from Ming and other Chinese army units
绿豆凸	lv	tu	see 綠豆椪|绿豆椪[lu:4 dou4 peng4]
绿豆椪	lv	peng	mung bean cake (pastry with a rounded top, containing a sweet or savory filling made with cooked mung beans)
绿赤杨	lv	yang	green alder (Alnus viridis)
缄口不言	jian	yan	see 閉口不言|闭口不言[bi4 kou3 bu4 yan2]
缅甸联邦	mian	bang	Union of Myanmar, official name of Burma 1998-2010
缅甸语	mian	yu	Burmese (language of Myanmar)
缆索吊椅	lan	yi	ski-lift
缉毒犬	ji	quan	drug detector dog; sniffer dog
缎纹织	duan	zhi	satin weave
缓不济急	huan	ji	lit. slow no aid to urgent (idiom); slow measures will not address a critical situation; too slow to meet a pressing need
缓兵之计	huan	ji	delaying tactics; stalling; measures to stave off an attack; stratagem to win a respite
缓冲器	huan	qi	buffer (computing)
缓发中子	huan	zi	delayed neutron
缓急相济	huan	ji	to help one another in difficulty; mutual assistance in extremity
缓急轻重	huan	zhong	see 輕重緩急|轻重缓急[qing1 zhong4 huan3 ji2]
缓期付款	huan	kuan	to defer payment
缓释肥	huan	fei	slow-release fertilizer
缓降器	huan	qi	cable reel and harness used to lower oneself to safety (e.g. from a building on fire)
缔约国	di	guo	signatory states; countries that are party to a treaty
缔约方	di	fang	party in a contract, treaty etc
缔造者	di	zhe	creator (of a great work); founder
编年体	bian	ti	in the style of annals; chronological history, the regular form of the Chinese dynastic histories
编年史	bian	shi	annals; chronicle
编班考试	bian	shi	placement test
编码器	bian	qi	encoder
编织品	bian	pin	woven fabric
编者按	bian	an	editor's commentary
编者案	bian	an	variant of 編者按|编者按[bian1 zhe3 an4]
编译器	bian	qi	compiler
编译家	bian	jia	translator and editor
编辑器	bian	qi	editor (software)
编辑室	bian	shi	editorial office; newsroom
编辑家	bian	jia	editor; compiler
缘木求鱼	yuan	yu	lit. climb a tree to catch a fish (idiom); fig. to attempt the impossible
缙云县	jin	xian	Jinyun, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
缚手缚脚	fu	jiao	(idiom) to be bound by too many restrictions
缚鸡之力	fu	li	(lit.) the strength to truss a chicken (idiom); (fig.) slight physical strength
缝合带	feng	dai	suture zone (geology)
缝纫机	feng	ji	sewing machine; CL:臺|台[tai2]
缝缝连连	feng	lian	needlework; sewing and mending
缝衣匠	feng	jiang	tailor
缝衣工人	feng	ren	needleworker
缝衣针	feng	zhen	sewing needle
缝针迹	feng	ji	seam
缟玛瑙	gao	nao	onyx; white agate
缠丝玛瑙	chan	nao	sardonyx (gemstone of brown-white striped chalcedony)
缠夹不清	chan	qing	to muddle things together (idiom); to bother sb with annoying muddle-headed talk
缠绕茎	chan	jing	vine; twining stem
缠绵不已	chan	yi	to cling without letting go; to pester without end; to cling lovingly to each other
缠绵悱恻	chan	ce	(of a person) sad beyond words (idiom); (of music, literature etc) poignant; very sentimental
缨翅目	ying	mu	see 薊馬|蓟马[ji4 ma3]
缩印本	suo	ben	compact edition (of a dictionary etc)
缩头乌龟	suo	gui	a turtle that pulls its head in; (fig.) coward; chicken
缩小模型	suo	xing	miniature
缩微平片	suo	pian	microfiche
缩成一团	suo	tuan	to huddle together; to curl up
缩手缩脚	suo	jiao	bound hand and foot (idiom); constrained
缩时摄影	suo	ying	time-lapse photography
缩氨酸	suo	suan	peptide (two or more amino acids linked by peptide bonds CO-NH)
缩略图	suo	tu	thumbnail (computing)
缩略字	suo	zi	abbreviated character
缩略语	suo	yu	abbreviated word; acronym
缩衣节食	suo	shi	to economize on clothes and food; to scrimp and save (idiom)
缬氨酸	xie	suan	valine (Val), an essential amino acid
缭边儿	liao	r	to stitch a hem
缴枪不杀	jiao	sha	“surrender and your life will be spared”
缺一不可	que	ke	not a single one is dispensable; can't do without either
缺乏症	que	zheng	clinical deficiency
缺德事	que	shi	misdeed; immoral action; wicked deed
缺德鬼	que	gui	public nuisance; a wicked, mean spirited individual
缺心少肺	que	fei	brainless; stupid
缺心眼	que	yan	stupid; senseless; dim-witted
缺心眼儿	que	r	erhua variant of 缺心眼[que1 xin1 yan3]
缺斤少两	que	liang	to give short weight
缺斤短两	que	liang	to give short weight
缺氧症	que	zheng	anoxia
缺衣少食	que	shi	short of food and clothing; destitute
罄竹难书	qing	shu	(lit.) too numerous to record on bamboo slips (idiom); (fig.) (of crimes or misdeeds) innumerable; beyond counting
罄身儿	qing	r	erhua variant of 罄身[qing4 shen1]
罐头笑声	guan	sheng	canned laughter; laugh track
罐头起子	guan	zi	can opener
网上广播	wang	bo	online broadcast; webcast
网信办	wang	ban	Cyberspace Administration of China
网师园	wang	yuan	Master of the Nets Garden in Suzhou, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
网开一面	wang	mian	open the net on one side (idiom); let the caged bird fly; to give one's opponent a way out; lenient treatment
网开三面	wang	mian	to leave the net open on three sides (idiom); let the caged bird fly; to give one's opponent a way out; lenient treatment
网格员	wang	yuan	community worker employed under China's grid-based governance system, responsible for patrolling neighborhoods, collecting information, mediating disputes and assisting residents
网状泡沫	wang	mo	reticulated foam
网状脉	wang	mai	netted veins; reticulated veins (of a leaf etc); stockwork (geology)
网球场	wang	chang	tennis court
网球赛	wang	sai	tennis match; tennis competition; CL:場|场[chang3]
网站导览	wang	lan	(Tw) website sitemap
网管员	wang	yuan	network manager; network administrator
网管接口	wang	kou	network management interface
网约车	wang	che	app-based taxi
网络俚语	wang	yu	Internet slang; netspeak; cyberspeak
网络协议	wang	yi	network protocol
网络地址转换	wang	huan	(computing) network address translation
网络安全	wang	quan	cybersecurity
网络客	wang	ke	online customer
网络层	wang	ceng	network layer
网络层协议	wang	yi	network layer protocol
网络广告	wang	gao	online advertising
网络应用	wang	yong	network application
网络成瘾	wang	yin	Internet addiction; net addiction; web addiction
网络打手	wang	shou	see 網絡水軍|网络水军[Wang3 luo4 shui3 jun1]
网络技术	wang	shu	network technology
网络操作系统	wang	tong	network operating system
网络日记	wang	ji	blog; weblog; same as 博客[bo2 ke4]
网络欺诈	wang	zha	phishing
网络水军	wang	jun	"Internet Navy"; paid Internet posters; astroturfers
网络浏览器	wang	qi	network browser; Internet browser
网络特工	wang	gong	anonymous state-sponsored Internet commentator
网络环境	wang	jing	network environment
网络用语	wang	yu	see 網絡語言|网络语言[wang3 luo4 yu3 yan2]
网络科技	wang	ji	network technology
网络空间	wang	jian	cyberspace
网络管理	wang	li	network management
网络管理员	wang	yuan	network administrator
网络管理系统	wang	tong	network management system; NMS
网络红人	wang	ren	Internet celebrity
网络色情	wang	qing	online pornography
网络规划人员	wang	yuan	network planner
网络设备	wang	bei	network equipment
网络设计	wang	ji	network design; network plan
网络语言	wang	yan	Internet slang; netspeak; cyberspeak
网络语音	wang	yin	VoIP (Voice over IP) (computing); to speak with others over the Internet
网络迁移	wang	yi	network migration
网罟座	wang	zuo	Reticulum (constellation)
网路作业系统	wang	tong	network operating system
网路平台	wang	tai	network platform
网路应用	wang	yong	(Tw) web application
网路服务	wang	wu	network service
网路架构	wang	gou	(Tw) network architecture
网路特务	wang	wu	anonymous state-sponsored Internet commentator
网路环境	wang	jing	network environment
网路节点	wang	dian	network node
网路节点介面	wang	mian	network node interface
网路链接层	wang	ceng	network link layer
网际协定	wang	ding	Internet protocol; IP
网际网络	wang	luo	Internet
网际网路	wang	lu	(Tw) Internet
网页地址	wang	zhi	webaddress; URL
网页设计	wang	ji	web design
罗一秀	luo	xiu	Luo Yixiu (1889-1910), Mao Zedong's first wife
罗世昌	luo	chang	Luo Shichang, Qing dynasty painter
罗伦斯	luo	si	Lawrence (city in Kansas, USA)
罗伯斯庇尔	luo	er	Robespierre (name); Maximilien François Marie Isidore de Robespierre (1758-1794), French revolutionary leader, enthusiastic advocate of reign of terror 1791-1794
罗伯特	luo	te	Robert (name)
罗伯茨	luo	ci	Roberts
罗伯逊	luo	xun	Robertson (name)
罗保铭	luo	ming	Luo Baoming (1952-), sixth governor of Hainan
罗兴亚人	luo	ren	Rohingya (predominantly Muslim ethnic group primarily residing in Rakhine State, Myanmar)
罗切斯特	luo	te	Rochester
罗嘉良	luo	liang	Gallen Lo (1962-), Hong Kong actor and singer
罗圈儿	luo	r	erhua variant of 羅圈|罗圈[luo2 quan1]
罗圈儿揖	luo	yi	to bow around with hands joined (to people on all sides)
罗圈架	luo	jia	a quarrel in which third parties get involved
罗圈腿	luo	tui	bow-legged; bandy-legged
罗城仫佬族自治县	luo	xian	Luocheng Mulao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
罗城县	luo	xian	see 羅城仫佬族自治縣|罗城仫佬族自治县[Luo2 cheng2 Mu4 lao3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
罗塞塔石碑	luo	bei	Rosetta Stone
罗姆人	luo	ren	Romani, an ethnic group of Europe
罗姆酒	luo	jiu	(loanword) rum
罗威纳犬	luo	quan	Rottweiler (dog breed)
罗安达	luo	da	Luanda, capital of Angola
罗宋汤	luo	tang	borscht, a traditional beetroot soup
罗定市	luo	shi	Luoding, a county-level city in Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
罗家英	luo	ying	Law Kar-Ying (1946-), Hong Kong actor
罗宾汉	luo	han	Robin Hood (English 12th century folk hero)
罗宾逊	luo	xun	Robinson (name)
罗密欧	luo	ou	Romeo (name)
罗密欧与朱丽叶	luo	ye	Romeo and Juliet, 1594 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
罗尔定理	luo	li	Rolle's theorem (in calculus)
罗山县	luo	xian	Luoshan, a county in Xinyang City 信陽市|信阳市[Xin4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
罗巴切夫斯基	luo	ji	Nikolai Lobachevsky (1792–1856), Russian mathematician, founder of non-Euclidean geometry
罗布林卡	luo	ka	Norbulingka (Tibetan: precious garden), summer residence of Dalai Lamas in Lhasa, Tibet
罗布泊	luo	po	Lop Nor, former salt lake in Xinjiang, now a salt-encrusted lake bed
罗布麻	luo	ma	dogbane (Apocynum venetum), leaves used in TCM
罗平县	luo	xian	Luoping, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
罗庄区	luo	qu	Luozhuang, a district of Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
罗式几何	luo	he	hyperbolic geometry; Lobachevskian geometry
罗彻斯特	luo	te	Rochester
罗得岛	luo	dao	Rhode Island, US state; Rhodes, an island of Greece
罗得斯岛	luo	dao	Rhodes, Mediterranean island
罗德岛	luo	dao	Rhode Island, US state; Rhodes, an island of Greece
罗必达法则	luo	ze	L'Hôpital's rule (math.) (Tw)
罗志祥	luo	xiang	Luo Zhixiang or Show Luo or Alan Luo (1979-), Taiwanese pop star
罗懋登	luo	deng	Luo Maodeng (16th century), Ming author of operas and popular fiction
罗托鲁瓦	luo	wa	Rotorua, city in New Zealand
罗摩衍那	luo	na	the Ramayana (Indian epic)
罗摩诺索夫	luo	fu	Mikhail Vasilyevich Lomonosov (1711-1765), famous Russian chemist and polymath
罗摩诺索夫山脊	luo	ji	Lomonosov ridge (in the Artic Ocean)
罗斯托克	luo	ke	Rostock (city in Germany)
罗斯托夫	luo	fu	Rostov-on-Don, Russian river port and regional capital close to Sea of Azov (north of the Black Sea)
罗斯涅夫	luo	fu	Rosneft (Russian state oil company)
罗斯福	luo	fu	Roosevelt (name); Theodore Roosevelt (1858-1919), US President 1901-1909; Franklin D. Roosevelt (1882-1945), US President 1933-1945
罗曼使	luo	shi	romance; love affair; more commonly written 羅曼史|罗曼史
罗曼史	luo	shi	romance (loanword); love affair
罗曼司	luo	si	(loanword) romance
罗曼蒂克	luo	ke	(loanword) romantic
罗曼语族	luo	zu	Romance language family
罗曼诺	luo	nuo	Romano (name)
罗望子	luo	zi	(botany) tamarind
罗杰斯	luo	si	Rogers
罗格斯大学	luo	xue	Rutgers University (New Jersey)
罗氏几何	luo	he	hyperbolic geometry; Lobachevskian geometry
罗氏线圈	luo	quan	Rogowski coil
罗汉拳	luo	quan	Luohan Quan (Shaolin kung fu style)
罗汉果	luo	guo	monk fruit, the sweet fruit of Siraitia grosvenorii, a vine of the Curcubitaceae family native to southern China and northern Thailand, used in Chinese medicine
罗汉病	luo	bing	snail fever (bilharzia or schistosomiasis), disease caused by schistosome parasitic flatworm
罗汉肚	luo	du	potbelly
罗汉豆	luo	dou	broad bean (Vicia faba); fava bean
罗汉鱼	luo	yu	flowerhorn cichlid
罗江区	luo	qu	Luojiang, a district of Deyang City 德陽市|德阳市[De2 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
罗洁爱尔之	luo	zhi	Raziel, archangel in Judaism
罗浮宫	luo	gong	the Louvre, museum in Paris (Tw)
罗浮山	luo	shan	Mt Luofushan in Zengcheng county, Guangdong
罗湖区	luo	qu	Luohu, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
罗源县	luo	xian	Luoyuan, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
罗生门	luo	men	Rashomon, Japanese novel and movie; (fig.) situation where conflicting interpretations of the same event obscure the truth; unsolvable case
罗田县	luo	xian	Luotian, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
罗甸县	luo	xian	Luodian, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
罗盘座	luo	zuo	Pyxis (constellation)
罗盛教	luo	jiao	Luo Chengjiao (1931-1952), PRC hero of the volunteer army in Korea
罗纳尔多	luo	duo	Ronaldo (name); Cristiano Ronaldo (1985-), Portuguese soccer player
罗纳河	luo	he	Rhone, river of Switzerland and France
罗纹鸭	luo	ya	(bird species of China) falcated duck (Mareca falcata)
罗缕纪存	luo	cun	to record and preserve
罗荣桓	luo	huan	Luo Ronghuan (1902-1963), Chinese communist military leader
罗蒙诺索夫	luo	fu	Mikhail Lomonosov (1711-1765), Russian polymath and writer
罗讷河	luo	he	Rhone River, France
罗贯中	luo	zhong	Luo Guanzhong (c. 1330-c. 1400), author of the Romance of the Three Kingdoms and other works
罗贾瓦	luo	wa	Rojava (de facto autonomous region in northeastern Syria)
罗锅儿	luo	r	erhua variant of 羅鍋|罗锅[luo2 guo1]
罗锅桥	luo	qiao	a humpback bridge
罗雀掘鼠	luo	shu	(lit.) to net sparrows and dig out rats (idiom); (fig.) to try every possible means of obtaining food (in times of starvation)
罗霄山	luo	shan	Luoxiao Mountains, mountain range straddling the border between Jiangxi and Hunan
罗非鱼	luo	yu	tilapia
罗马书	luo	shu	Epistle of St Paul to the Romans
罗马公教	luo	jiao	Roman Catholicism
罗马凉鞋	luo	xie	Roman sandals; ankle-strap sandals
罗马化	luo	hua	romanization
罗马字	luo	zi	the Latin alphabet
罗马字母	luo	mu	Roman letters; Roman alphabet
罗马尼亚	luo	ya	Romania
罗马帝国	luo	guo	Roman Empire
罗马教廷	luo	ting	the Church (as Royal Court); the Holy See; the Vatican
罗马数字	luo	zi	Roman numerals
罗马斗兽场	luo	chang	Colosseum (Rome)
罗马法	luo	fa	Roman law
罗马诺	luo	nuo	Romano (name)
罗马鞋	luo	xie	caligae (sandals worn by Roman soldiers in ancient times); (fashion) Roman-style sandals; ankle-strap sandals
罚不当罪	fa	zui	disproportionate punishment; the punishment is harsher than the crime
罚出场	fa	chang	(of a referee) to send a player off the field
罚半蹲	fa	dun	to punish a student by having him stand in a half-squatting position with arms extended forward
罢黜百家独尊儒术	ba	shu	Dismiss the hundred schools, revere only the Confucian (idiom); sole dominant ideology
罪与罚	zui	fa	Crime and Punishment by Dostoyevsky 陀思妥耶夫斯基[Tuo2 si1 tuo3 ye1 fu1 si1 ji1]
罪大恶极	zui	ji	guilty of terrible crimes (idiom); reprehensible
罪恶感	zui	gan	feeling of guilt
罪恶滔天	zui	tian	(idiom) to have committed heinous crimes
罪有应得	zui	de	guilty and deserves to be punished (idiom); entirely appropriate chastisement; the punishment fits the crime
罪行累累	zui	lei	having an extensive criminal record
罪该万死	zui	si	(idiom) deserving the severest punishment; death is too good for sb
罪魁祸首	zui	shou	(idiom) criminal ringleader; main offender; main culprit; main cause of a disaster
置中对齐	zhi	qi	centered alignment (typography)
置之不理	zhi	li	to pay no heed to (idiom); to ignore; to brush aside
置之不问	zhi	wen	to pass by without showing interest (idiom)
置之度外	zhi	wai	to give no thought to; to have no regard for; to disregard
置之死地而后生	zhi	sheng	(idiom based on Sunzi's "The Art of War" 孫子兵法|孙子兵法[Sun1 zi3 Bing1 fa3]) to deploy one's troops in such a way that there is no possibility of retreat, so that they will fight for their lives and win the battle; to fight desperately when confronted with mortal danger; to find a way to emerge from a dire situation
置之脑后	zhi	hou	to banish from one's thoughts; to ignore; to take no notice
置信区间	zhi	jian	(statistics) confidence interval
置信水平	zhi	ping	confidence level (math.)
置信系数	zhi	shu	confidence coefficient (math.)
置信限	zhi	xian	confidence limit (math.)
置入性行销	zhi	xiao	product placement
置换突变	zhi	bian	missense mutation
置换群	zhi	qun	(math.) permutation group
置物柜	zhi	gui	locker; cabinet
置若罔闻	zhi	wen	to turn a deaf ear to (idiom); to pretend not to hear
置装费	zhi	fei	variant of 治裝費|治装费[zhi4 zhuang1 fei4]
置诸高阁	zhi	ge	lit. place on a high shelf; to pay no attention to (idiom)
置身事外	zhi	wai	(idiom) not to get involved; to stay out of it
罱泥船	lan	chuan	boat used for collecting river sludge (to use as a fertilizer)
羊入虎口	yang	kou	lit. a lamb in a tiger's den (idiom); fig. to tread dangerous ground
羊卓雍措	yang	cuo	Yamdrok Lake, Tibet
羊卓雍错	yang	cuo	Yamdrok Lake, Tibet
羊头狗肉	yang	rou	see 掛羊頭賣狗肉|挂羊头卖狗肉[gua4 yang2 tou2 mai4 gou3 rou4]
羊毛出在羊身上	yang	shang	lit. wool comes from the sheep's back (idiom); One gets the benefit, but the price has been paid.; Nothing comes for free.
羊毛毯	yang	tan	woolen blanket
羊毛线	yang	xian	knitting wool; wool yarn
羊毛脂	yang	zhi	lanolin; wool oil
羊毛衫	yang	shan	wool sweater; cardigan
羊水穿刺	yang	ci	amniocentesis (used in Taiwan)
羊痒疫	yang	yi	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
羊痫风	yang	feng	epilepsy
羊瘙痒病	yang	bing	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
羊瘙痒症	yang	zheng	scrapie (prion disease of sheep)
羊癫疯	yang	feng	epilepsy
羊皮纸	yang	zhi	parchment
羊肉串	yang	chuan	lamb kebab
羊肉馅	yang	xian	minced mutton
羊肚子手巾	yang	jin	see 羊肚手巾[yang2 du4 shou3 jin1]
羊肚子毛巾	yang	jin	see 羊肚手巾[yang2 du4 shou3 jin1]
羊肚手巾	yang	jin	(dialect) towel (especially worn as a turban)
羊肠小径	yang	jing	winding road (twisting and turning like a sheep's intestine)
羊肠小道	yang	dao	road as twisty as sheep's intestine (idiom); narrow and winding road; fig. complicated and tricky job
羊脂白玉	yang	yu	sheep-fat white jade, a type of jade
羊膜穿刺	yang	ci	amniocentesis
羊膜穿刺术	yang	shu	amniocentesis
羊角包	yang	bao	croissant
羊角村	yang	cun	Giethoorn (city in the Netherlands)
羊角疯	yang	feng	variant of 羊角風|羊角风[yang2 jiao3 feng1]
羊角芹	yang	qin	ground-elder (Aegopodium podagraria)
羊角豆	yang	dou	(Malaysia) okra (Abelmoschus esculentus)
羊角锤	yang	chui	claw hammer
羊角面包	yang	bao	croissant
羊角风	yang	feng	epilepsy
羊触藩篱	yang	li	lit. billy goat's horns caught in the fence (idiom from Book of Changes 易經|易经); impossible to advance or to retreat; without any way out of a dilemma; trapped
羊质虎皮	yang	pi	lit. the heart of a sheep in the skin of a tiger (idiom); fig. impressive in appearance but lacking in substance; braggart
羌无故实	qiang	shi	to have no basis in fact (idiom)
美不胜收	mei	shou	nothing more beautiful can be imagined (idiom)
美东时间	mei	jian	USA Eastern Standard Time
美中不足	mei	zu	everything is fine except for one small defect (idiom); the fly in the ointment
美中台	mei	tai	US-China-Taiwan
美丽岛	mei	dao	Formosa (from Ilha Formosa, "Beautiful Isle", the name given to Taiwan Island by passing Portuguese mariners in 1544)
美丽岛事件	mei	jian	Kaohsiung Incident (aka Formosa Incident), a crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrations in Kaohsiung, Taiwan, on 10 December 1979 during Taiwan's martial law period
美丽新世界	mei	jie	Brave New World, novel by Aldous Huxley 阿道司·赫胥黎[A1 dao4 si1 · He4 xu1 li2]
美乃滋	mei	zi	mayonnaise (loanword) (Tw)
美人坯子	mei	zi	see 美人胚子[mei3 ren2 pei1 zi5]
美人尖	mei	jian	widow's peak (in China, regarded as attractive in women)
美人痣	mei	zhi	beauty mark
美人胚子	mei	zi	(coll.) girl who shows signs of becoming a beauty; budding beauty
美人腿	mei	tui	(Tw) (coll.) edible stem of Manchurian wild rice 菰[gu1], aka water bamboo
美人蕉	mei	jiao	canna or Indian shot (genus Canna)
美人计	mei	ji	honey trap; sexual entrapment; CL:條|条[tiao2]
美人鱼	mei	yu	mermaid
美他沙酮	mei	tong	metaxalone
美以美	mei	mei	Methodist (Christian sect)
美体小铺	mei	pu	The Body Shop (UK cosmetics company)
美兰区	mei	qu	Meilan, a district of Haikou City 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4], Hainan
美其名曰	mei	yue	to call by the glorified name of (idiom)
美利坚	mei	jian	America
美利坚合众国	mei	guo	United States of America
美利坚治世	mei	shi	Pax Americana
美利奴羊	mei	yang	merino (breed of sheep)
美发厅	mei	ting	hairdressing salon
美发师	mei	shi	hairdresser; beautician
美味可口	mei	kou	delicious; tasty
美味牛肝菌	mei	jun	porcino (Boletus edulis)
美因茨	mei	ci	Mainz (city in Germany)
美团点评	mei	ping	Meituan-Dianping, China's largest service-focused e-commerce platform
美国之音	mei	yin	Voice of America (VOA)
美国交会	mei	hui	abbr. for 美國證券交易委員會|美国证券交易委员会, US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
美国人	mei	ren	American; American person; American people
美国众议院	mei	yuan	United States House of Representatives
美国佬	mei	lao	an American (derog.); a Yankee
美国全国广播公司	mei	si	National Broadcasting Company (NBC)
美国参议院	mei	yuan	United States Senate
美国国会	mei	hui	US Congress
美国国务院	mei	yuan	US Department of State
美国国家侦察局	mei	ju	National Reconnaissance Office (of the United States)
美国国家标准学会	mei	hui	American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
美国国家航空航天局	mei	ju	NASA, National Aeronautics and Space Administration, agency of US government
美国国际集团	mei	tuan	American International Group
美国在线	mei	xian	America Online (AOL)
美国地质局	mei	ju	United States Geological Survey (USGS)
美国地质调查局	mei	ju	United States Geological Survey (USGS)
美国太空总署	mei	shu	NASA (National Aeronautics and Space Administration)
美国存托凭证	mei	zheng	American depository receipt (ADR)
美国宇航局	mei	ju	US National Aeronautics and Space Administration; NASA
美国广播公司	mei	si	ABC (American Broadcasting Corporation)
美国最高法院	mei	yuan	Supreme Court of the United States
美国有线新闻网	mei	wang	Cable Network News (CNN)
美国海岸警卫队	mei	dui	United States Coast Guard
美国独立战争	mei	zheng	American War of Independence (1775-1783)
美国电话电报公司	mei	si	AT&T
美国联合通讯社	mei	she	Associated Press (AP); abbr. to 美聯社|美联社[Mei3 Lian2 she4]
美国联邦储备	mei	bei	US Federal Reserve (Fed), the US central bank
美国联邦航空局	mei	ju	Federal Aviation Authority (FAA)
美国能源部	mei	bu	US Department of Energy (DOE)
美国航空	mei	kong	American Airlines
美国航空公司	mei	si	American Airlines
美国证券交易委员会	mei	hui	US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
美国资讯交换标准码	mei	ma	ASCII, American Standard Code for Information Interchange
美国运通	mei	tong	American Express Co. (Amex)
美声唱法	mei	fa	bel canto
美姑县	mei	xian	Meigu, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
美姑河	mei	he	Meigu River in south Sichuan
美宇航局	mei	ju	US National Aeronautics and Space Administration; NASA; abbr. for 美國宇航局|美国宇航局
美容女	mei	nv	hairdresser (female); beautician
美容师	mei	shi	hairdresser; beautician (male)
美容店	mei	dian	beauty salon; CL:家[jia1]
美容手术	mei	shu	cosmetic surgery
美容觉	mei	jiao	beauty sleep (before midnight)
美容院	mei	yuan	beauty salon; beauty parlor
美尼尔氏综合症	mei	zheng	Meniere's disease
美尼尔病	mei	bing	Meniere's disease
美属维尔京群岛	mei	dao	United States Virgin Islands (USVI)
美属萨摩亚	mei	ya	American Samoa
美工刀	mei	dao	utility knife; box cutter
美差事	mei	shi	a terrific job
美式咖啡	mei	fei	caffè americano
美式橄榄球	mei	qiu	American football
美式足球	mei	qiu	American football
美拉尼西亚	mei	ya	Melanesia
美智子	mei	zi	Michiko, Japanese female given name; Empress Michiko of Japan (1934-)
美术史	mei	shi	history of art
美术品	mei	pin	an art object
美术编辑	mei	ji	(publishing) layout and graphics; graphic design; art editor
美术馆	mei	guan	art gallery
美杜莎	mei	sha	Medusa (monster of Greek mythology)
美林集团	mei	tuan	Merrill Lynch
美梦成真	mei	zhen	a dream come true
美汁源	mei	yuan	Minute Maid
美沙酮	mei	tong	methadone
美泉宫	mei	gong	Schönbrunn Palace in Vienna
美洛昔康	mei	kang	meloxicam (anti-inflammatory drug)
美洲国家组织	mei	zhi	Organization of American States
美洲大陆	mei	lu	the Americas; North and South American continents
美洲狮	mei	shi	cougar; mountain lion; puma
美洲绿翅鸭	mei	ya	(bird species of China) green-winged teal (Anas carolinensis)
美洲虎	mei	hu	jaguar
美洲豹	mei	bao	jaguar (Panthera onca)
美洲金鸻	mei	heng	(bird species of China) American golden plover (Pluvialis dominica)
美洲鸵	mei	tuo	Greater Rhea; American Rhea; Rhea americana
美浓瓜	mei	gua	(Tw) oriental melon (Cucumis melo Makuwa Group)
美滋滋	mei	zi	very happy; elated
美甲师	mei	shi	manicurist; nail artist
美粒果	mei	guo	Minute Maid (brand)
美索不达米亚	mei	ya	Mesopotamia
美纹纸胶带	mei	dai	masking tape
美耐板	mei	ban	melamine veneer (loanword)
美耐皿	mei	min	(Tw) (loanword) melamine
美职篮	mei	lan	National Basketball Association (NBA)
美联储	mei	chu	US Federal Reserve (Fed), the US central bank
美联社	mei	she	Associated Press (AP); abbr. for 美國聯合通訊社|美国联合通讯社[Mei3 guo2 Lian2 he2 Tong1 xun4 she4]
美轮美奂	mei	huan	(idiom) (of houses, scenery etc) magnificent
美颜相机	mei	ji	BeautyCam, a smartphone app for retouching selfies (abbr. to 美顏|美颜[Mei3 yan2])
美食家	mei	jia	gourmet
美食沙漠	mei	mo	culinary desert
美食荒漠	mei	mo	culinary desert
美食街	mei	jie	food court; food street
羝羊触藩	di	fan	lit. billy goat's horns caught in the fence (idiom from Book of Changes 易經|易经); impossible to advance or to retreat; without any way out of a dilemma; trapped
羞于启齿	xiu	chi	to be too shy to speak one's mind (idiom)
羞愧难当	xiu	dang	to feel ashamed (idiom)
羞答答	xiu	da	bashful
羞羞脸	xiu	lian	(jocular) shame on you!
羟基丁酸	qiang	suan	gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid, GHB
羟基磷灰石	qiang	shi	hydroxyapatite (calcium phosphate mineral forming bone and tooth enamel)
羟氯喹	qiang	kui	hydroxychloroquine (medication)
羟自由基	qiang	ji	hydroxyl radical
羡慕嫉妒恨	xian	hen	to be green with envy (neologism c. 2009)
群众团体	qun	ti	mass (non-government) organization
群众外包	qun	bao	crowdsourcing; abbr. to 眾包|众包[zhong4 bao1]
群众大会	qun	hui	mass rally
群众性	qun	xing	to do with the masses; mass (meeting, movement etc)
群众演员	qun	yuan	extra (actor engaged to appear in a crowd scene)
群众组织	qun	zhi	communal organization
群众路线	qun	xian	the mass line, CCP term for Party policy aimed at broadening and cultivating contacts with the masses
群体免疫	qun	yi	herd immunity
群体性事件	qun	jian	mass incident (PRC term for incidents of social unrest, including rioting, melees and petition campaigns)
群发性地震	qun	zhen	earthquake swarm
群发性头痛	qun	tong	cluster headache
群策群力	qun	li	(idiom) to act in concert; to pool ideas and efforts
群英会	qun	hui	distinguished gathering; a meeting of heroes
群言堂	qun	tang	letting everyone have their say; taking people's views into account; free expression of different views
群起而攻之	qun	zhi	the masses rise to attack it (idiom); Everyone is against the idea.; universally abhorrent
群雄逐鹿	qun	lu	great heroes pursue deer in the central plains (idiom); fig. many vie for supremacy
群龙无首	qun	shou	lit. a thunder of dragons without a head; fig. a group lacking a leader
羧基酸	suo	suan	carboxylic acid
羧甲司坦	suo	tan	carbocysteine
羯鼓催花	jie	hua	drumming to make apricots flower, cf joke by Tang Emperor Xuanzhong 唐玄宗, playing the drum in apricot blossom
羲皇上人	xi	ren	lit. a person before the legendary emperor Fuxi 伏羲[Fu2 Xi1]; person from ages immemorial; fig. untroubled person
羹藜含糗	geng	qiu	nothing but herb soup and dry provisions to eat (idiom); to survive on a coarse diet; à la guerre comme à la guerre
羹藜唅糗	geng	qiu	nothing but herb soup and dry provisions to eat (idiom); to survive on a coarse diet; à la guerre comme à la guerre
羽尾袋鼯	yu	wu	feathertail glider (Acrobates pygmaeus)
羽毛球	yu	qiu	badminton; shuttlecock
羽毛球场	yu	chang	badminton court
羽毛笔	yu	bi	quill pen
羽毛缎	yu	duan	camlet (silk fabric)
羽状复叶	yu	ye	bipinnate leaf (in phyllotaxy)
羽绒服	yu	fu	down jacket; down coat
羽翼丰满	yu	man	fully fledged
羽衣甘蓝	yu	lan	kale
羽鳃鲐	yu	tai	Indian mackerel
翁安县	weng	xian	Weng'an County in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
翁山苏姬	weng	ji	see 昂山素季[Ang2 Shan1 Su4 Ji4]
翁源县	weng	xian	Wengyuan, a county in Shaoguan City 韶關市|韶关市[Shao2 guan1 Shi4], Guangdong
翁牛特	weng	te	Ongniud banner or Ongnuud khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
翁牛特旗	weng	qi	Ongniud banner or Ongnuud khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
翅膀硬	chi	ying	(of a bird) to fledge; (fig.) (of a person) to outgrow the need to be submissive to one's parents, mentor etc; to break away from the people who have supported one up to now
翔安区	xiang	qu	Xiang'an, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
翘二郎腿	qiao	tui	to stick one leg over the other (when sitting)
翘嘴鹬	qiao	yu	(bird species of China) Terek sandpiper (Xenus cinereus)
翘尾巴	qiao	ba	to be cocky
翘居群首	qiao	shou	head and shoulders above the crowd (idiom); preeminent; outstanding
翘拇指	qiao	zhi	to give a thumbs-up
翘翘板	qiao	ban	see-saw; also written 蹺蹺板|跷跷板[qiao1 qiao1 ban3]
翘舌音	qiao	yin	retroflex sound (e.g. in Mandarin zh, ch, sh, r)
翘足引领	qiao	ling	waiting on tiptoes and craning one's neck (idiom); to look forward eagerly; to long for
翘足而待	qiao	dai	to expect in a short time (idiom); also pr. [qiao4 zu2 er2 dai4]
翘辫子	qiao	zi	(coll.) to die; to kick the bucket
翘首以待	qiao	dai	to hold one's breath (in anticipation) (idiom); to anxiously await
翘鼻麻鸭	qiao	ya	(bird species of China) common shelduck (Tadorna tadorna)
翟志刚	zhai	gang	Zhai Zhigang (1966-), Chinese astronaut
翟理斯	zhai	si	Herbert Allen Giles (1845-1935), British diplomat and linguist, contributor to the Wade-Giles Chinese romanization system
翠冠玉	cui	yu	peyote (Lophophora williamsii)
翠屏区	cui	qu	Cuiping, a district of Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
翠金鹃	cui	juan	(bird species of China) Asian emerald cuckoo (Chrysococcyx maculatus)
翠青蛇	cui	she	Entechinus major (kind of snake)
翡冷翠	fei	cui	Florence, Italy (from Firenze)
翦伯赞	jian	zan	Jian Bozan (1898-1968), Chinese Marxist historian and vice-president of Bejing University 1952-1968
翩然而至	pian	zhi	come trippingly
翩翩起舞	pian	wu	(to start) dancing lightly and gracefully
翰林学士	han	shi	members of the Hanlin Imperial Academy 翰林院, employed as imperial secretaries from the Tang onwards
翰林院	han	yuan	Imperial Hanlin Academy, lasting from Tang dynasty until 1911
翻一番	fan	fan	to increase by 100%; to double
翻云覆雨	fan	yu	to produce clouds with one turn of the hand and rain with another (idiom); fig. to shift one's ground; tricky and inconstant; to make love
翻天覆地	fan	di	sky and the earth turning upside down (idiom); fig. complete confusion; everything turned on its head
翻子拳	fan	quan	Fanziquan - "Overturning Fist" - Martial Art
翻山越岭	fan	ling	lit. to pass over mountain ridges (idiom); fig. hardships of the journey
翻手为云覆手变雨	fan	yu	lit. turning his hand palm up he gathers the clouds, turning his hand palm down he turns them to rain; very powerful and capable (idiom)
翻斗卡车	fan	che	dump truck
翻旧账	fan	zhang	to turn over old accounts; fig. to revive old quarrels; to reopen old wounds
翻来覆去	fan	qu	to toss and turn (sleeplessly); again and again
翻桌率	fan	lv	table turnover rate (in a restaurant)
翻江倒海	fan	hai	lit. overturning seas and rivers (idiom); fig. overwhelming; earth-shattering
翻然悔悟	fan	wu	to see the error of one's ways; to make a clean break with one's past
翻版碟	fan	die	copy of DVD; pirate DVD
翻白眼	fan	yan	to roll one's eyes
翻石鹬	fan	yu	(bird species of China) ruddy turnstone (Arenaria interpres)
翻空出奇	fan	qi	to overturn empty convention, and display originality (idiom); new and different ideas
翻筋斗	fan	dou	to tumble; to turn a somersault
翻箱倒柜	fan	gui	to overturn trunks and boxes; to make a thorough search (idiom)
翻箱倒箧	fan	qie	to overturn trunks and boxes; to make a thorough search (idiom)
翻篇儿	fan	r	to turn a page; (fig.) to turn over a new leaf
翻老皇历	fan	li	to look to the past for guidance (idiom)
翻老账	fan	zhang	to turn over old accounts; fig. to revive old quarrels; to reopen old wounds
翻脸不认人	fan	ren	to fall out with sb and become hostile
翻译家	fan	jia	translator (of writings)
翻译者	fan	zhe	translator; interpreter
翻跟头	fan	tou	to turn a somersault
翻跟斗	fan	dou	to turn a somersault
翻车鱼	fan	yu	ocean sunfish (Mola mola)
翻过来	fan	lai	to overturn; to turn upside down
翼城县	yi	xian	Yicheng, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
翼子板	yi	ban	(PRC) fender (automotive)
翼手龙	yi	long	pterodactyl
耀州区	yao	qu	Yaozhou, a district of Tongchuan City 銅川市|铜川市[Tong2 chuan1 Shi4], Shaanxi
耀武扬威	yao	wei	to show off one's military strength (idiom); to strut around; to bluff; to bluster
老一套	lao	tao	the same old stuff
老一辈	lao	bei	older generation
老丈人	lao	ren	(coll.) father-in-law (wife's father)
老三篇	lao	pian	Lao San Pian, three short essays written by Mao Zedong before the PRC was established
老三色	lao	se	the three plain colors used for clothing in the PRC in the 1960s: black, gray and blue
老不死	lao	si	(derog.) old but still alive; old fart; old bastard
老东西	lao	xi	(derog.) old fool; old bastard
老两口	lao	kou	old married couple
老两口儿	lao	r	an old married couple
老于世故	lao	gu	experienced in the ways of the world (idiom); worldly-wise; sophisticated
老人家	lao	jia	polite term for old woman or man
老人院	lao	yuan	nursing home; old people's home
老伯伯	lao	bo	grandpa (polite form of address for old man)
老伴儿	lao	r	erhua variant of 老伴[lao3 ban4]
老佛爷	lao	ye	title of respect for the queen mother or the emperor's father; nickname for Empress Dowager Cixi 慈禧太后[Ci2 xi3 tai4 hou4]
老公公	lao	gong	old man; husband's father; father-in-law
老半天	lao	tian	(coll.) a long time
老古板	lao	ban	overly conservative; old-fashioned; old fogey
老古董	lao	dong	antique; old relic; (fig.) old-fashioned person or thing; old fogey
老司机	lao	ji	(coll.) an old hand at sth
老吾老以及人之老	lao	lao	to honor old people as we do our own aged parents
老地方	lao	fang	same place as before; usual place; stomping ground
老城区	lao	qu	Laocheng, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
老处女	lao	nv	unmarried old woman; spinster
老大不小	lao	xiao	no longer a child (idiom)
老大哥	lao	ge	big brother
老大妈	lao	ma	"Madam" (affectionate term for an elderly woman); CL:位[wei4]
老大娘	lao	niang	old lady; Madam (polite address); CL:位[wei4]
老大徒伤悲	lao	bei	vain regrets of old age (idiom)
老大爷	lao	ye	uncle; grandpa; CL:位[wei4]
老天爷	lao	ye	God; Heavens
老天爷饿不死瞎家雀	lao	que	lit. heaven won't let the sparrows go hungry (idiom); fig. don't give up hope; if you tough it out, there will be light at the end of the tunnel
老太公	lao	gong	aged gentleman (dialect, respectful term)
老太太	lao	tai	elderly lady (respectful); esteemed mother; CL:位[wei4]
老太婆	lao	po	old woman (at times contemptuous)
老太爷	lao	ye	elderly gentleman (respectful); esteemed father
老夫少妻	lao	qi	older husband and much younger wife
老夫老妻	lao	qi	long-married couple
老头乐	lao	le	backscratcher (made from bamboo etc); (may also refer to other products that are of benefit to old people, such as padded cloth shoes, mobility tricycle etc)
老头儿	lao	r	see 老頭子|老头子[lao3 tou2 zi5]
老头子	lao	zi	(coll.) old man; (said of an aging husband) my old man
老套子	lao	zi	old methods; old habits
老奶奶	lao	nai	(coll.) father's father's mother; paternal great-grandmother; respectful form of address for an old woman
老奸巨滑	lao	hua	variant of 老奸巨猾[lao3 jian1 ju4 hua2]
老奸巨猾	lao	hua	cunning; crafty; wily old fox
老好人	lao	ren	one who tries never to offend anybody
老妇人	lao	ren	elderly woman
老妈子	lao	zi	older female servant; amah
老婆孩子热炕头	lao	tou	wife, kids and a warm bed (idiom); the simple and good life
老婆本	lao	ben	savings a man puts aside for married life
老婆饼	lao	bing	"wife cake" – a thin, flaky Cantonese pastry filled with sweetened winter melon (or other mild sweet fillings)
老嫂子	lao	zi	(slang) effeminate man
老字号	lao	hao	shop, firm, or brand of merchandise with a long-established reputation
老实巴交	lao	jiao	(coll.) docile; well-behaved; biddable
老实说	lao	shuo	honestly speaking; to be frank, ...
老客儿	lao	r	erhua variant of 老客[lao3 ke4]
老家伙	lao	huo	variant of 老家伙[lao3 jia1 huo5]
老家贼	lao	zei	(dialect) sparrow
老寒腿	lao	tui	see 寒腿[han2 tui3]
老小老小	lao	xiao	(coll.) as one ages, one becomes more and more like a child
老少咸宜	lao	yi	suitable for young and old
老少无欺	lao	qi	cheating neither old nor young; treating youngsters and old folk equally scrupulously; Our house offers sincere treatment to all and fair trade to old and young alike.
老少皆宜	lao	yi	suitable for both the young and the old
老少配	lao	pei	romantic relationship with a significant age gap
老山自行车馆	lao	guan	Laoshan Velodrome, a Beijing 2008 Olympics venue
老帽儿	lao	r	(dialect) country bumpkin; a hick
老年人	lao	ren	old people; the elderly
老年性痴呆症	lao	zheng	senile dementia
老年斑	lao	ban	liver spot; age spot
老年期	lao	qi	old age
老年痴呆	lao	dai	senile dementia; Alzheimer's disease
老年痴呆症	lao	zheng	senile dementia; Alzheimer's disease
老当益壮	lao	zhuang	old but vigorous (idiom); hale and hearty despite the years
老态龙钟	lao	zhong	(idiom) doddering; senile
老戏骨	lao	gu	(dialect) veteran actor; old trouper
老成持重	lao	zhong	old and wise; experienced and knowledgeable
老掉牙	lao	ya	very old; obsolete; out of date
老搭档	lao	dang	longtime partner; longstanding collaborator
老朋友	lao	you	old friend; (slang) period; menstruation
老来俏	lao	qiao	old person who dresses up as teenager; mutton dressed as lamb
老来少	lao	shao	old but young at heart
老来得子	lao	zi	to have a child late in life (esp. said of a father)
老板娘	lao	niang	female proprietor; lady boss; boss's wife
老样子	lao	zi	old situation; things as they were
老框框	lao	kuang	rigid conventions; reactionary framework
老残游记	lao	ji	The Travels of Lao Tsan, novel by late Qing novelist Liu E 劉鶚|刘鹗[Liu2 E4]
老毛子	lao	zi	Westerner (esp. a Russian) (derog.)
老毛病	lao	bing	chronic illness; old weakness; chronic problem
老气横秋	lao	qiu	old and decrepit; proud of one's age and experience (idiom)
老江湖	lao	hu	a much-travelled person, well acquainted with the ways of the world
老河口	lao	kou	see 老河口市[Lao3 he2 kou3 Shi4]
老河口市	lao	shi	Laohekou, a county-level city in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
老油子	lao	zi	(coll.) wily old fox; crafty fellow
老油条	lao	tiao	old fox; slick customer
老烟枪	lao	qiang	heavy smoker; chain smoker; life-long smoker
老烟鬼	lao	gui	heavy smoker; chain smoker
老爷子	lao	zi	my (your etc) old father; polite appellation for an elderly male
老爷岭	lao	ling	Chinese name for Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russia's Primorsky Krai around Vladivostok
老爷爷	lao	ye	(polite) elderly man
老爷车	lao	che	classic car
老牛吃嫩草	lao	cao	lit. an old cow eats young grass (idiom); fig. a May-December relationship; a romance where the man is significantly older than the woman
老牛拉破车	lao	che	see 老牛破車|老牛破车[lao3 niu2 po4 che1]
老牛破车	lao	che	lit. old ox pulling a shabby cart (idiom); fig. slow and inefficient
老牛舐犊	lao	du	lit. an old ox licking its calf (idiom); fig. (of parents) to dote on one's children
老狐狸	lao	li	(fig.) old fox; a wily, shrewd person
老玉米	lao	mi	(dialect) corn
老王卖瓜自卖自夸	lao	kua	every potter praises his own pot (idiom); all one's geese are swans
老生常谈	lao	tan	an old observation (idiom); a truism; banal comments
老百姓	lao	xing	ordinary people; the "person in the street"; CL:個|个[ge4]
老皇历	lao	li	(lit.) past years' almanac; (fig.) ancient history; obsolete practice; old-fashioned principle
老眼昏花	lao	hua	blurred vision of an old person (idiom)
老着脸	lao	lian	shamelessly
老神在在	lao	zai	(Tw) calm; unperturbed (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [lāu-sîn-tsāi-tsāi])
老糊涂	lao	tu	dotard
老羞成怒	lao	nu	see 惱羞成怒|恼羞成怒[nao3 xiu1 cheng2 nu4]
老腊肉	lao	rou	(coll.) experienced and usually well-positioned middle-aged man
老花眼	lao	yan	presbyopia
老花镜	lao	jing	presbyopic glasses
老虎伍兹	lao	zi	Eldrick "Tiger" Woods (1975-), American golfer
老虎凳	lao	deng	tiger bench (torture method in which the victim sits with legs extended horizontally along a bench, upper legs held down with straps while bricks are inserted under the feet, forcing the knee joint to bend in reverse)
老虎机	lao	ji	slot machine
老虎灶	lao	zao	old-style large kitchen stove
老虎菜	lao	cai	tiger salad, a northeast China dish usually consisting of hot pepper, cucumber, cilantro and leek
老虎钳	lao	qian	vise; pincer pliers
老蚌生珠	lao	zhu	lit. an old oyster producing a pearl (idiom); fig. birthing a son at an advanced age
老视眼	lao	yan	presbyopia
老调重弹	lao	tan	to play the same old tune (idiom); unoriginal
老谋深算	lao	suan	rigorous schemes and deep foresight (idiom); astute and circumspect
老资格	lao	ge	veteran
老边区	lao	qu	Laobian, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
老顽固	lao	gu	(derog.) old-fashioned and stubborn person; stick in the mud
老马嘶风	lao	feng	old horse sniffs the wind (idiom); fig. aged person with great aspirations
老马恋栈	lao	zhan	lit. the old horse loves his stable; fig. sb old but reluctant to relinquish their post (idiom)
老马识途	lao	tu	an old horse knows the way (idiom); an experienced worker knows what to do; an old hand knows the ropes
老骥伏枥	lao	li	lit. an old steed in the stable still aspires to gallop 1000 miles (idiom); fig. aged person with great aspirations
老骥伏枥志在千里	lao	li	lit. an old steed in the stable still aspires to gallop 1000 miles (idiom); fig. old people may still cherish high aspirations
老骥嘶风	lao	feng	old steed sniffs the wind (idiom); fig. aged person with great aspirations
老骨头	lao	tou	weary old body (colloquial term, used jocularly or irreverently)
老鹰星云	lao	yun	Eagle Nebula, aka Star Queen Nebula, M16
老鼠仓	lao	cang	(finance) "rat trading", a form of front-running in which a fund manager secretly builds a position in a security at low prices using personal funds, then uses public funds to drive up the price
老鼠拉龟无从下手	lao	shou	like mice trying to pull a turtle, nowhere to get a hand grip (idiom); no clue where to start
老鼠洞	lao	dong	mouse hole
老鼠过街人人喊打	lao	da	lit. when a rat crosses the street, people chase it down (idiom); fig. everyone detests a lowlife
老鼻子	lao	zi	many
老龄化	lao	hua	aging (population)
考克斯	kao	si	(surname) Cox
考克斯报告	kao	gao	Cox Report; Report of the Select Committee on US National Security and Military-Commercial Concerns with the PRC (1999); Committee Chairman Republican Rep. Chris Cox
考勤簿	kao	bu	attendance record book
考勤表	kao	biao	attendance sheet
考古学	kao	xue	archaeology
考古学家	kao	jia	archaeologist
考古家	kao	jia	archaeologist
考古题	kao	ti	questions from previous years' exams (Tw)
考察团	kao	tuan	inspection team
考察船	kao	chuan	survey ship
考察队	kao	dui	investigation team; scientific expedition
考工记	kao	ji	The Artificer's Record, a technology treaty compiled towards the end of the Spring and Autumn period
考文垂	kao	chui	Coventry, city in the West Midlands, England
考波什堡	kao	bao	Kaposvár in southwest Hungary, capital of Somogy County 紹莫吉州|绍莫吉州[Shao4 mo4 ji2 Zhou1]
考试卷	kao	juan	exam paper; test paper (CL:張|张[zhang1])
考试卷子	kao	zi	see 考試卷|考试卷[kao3 shi4 juan4]
考试院	kao	yuan	Examination Yuan, the qualification and appointment board under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan; exam board
考选部	kao	bu	Ministry of Examination, Taiwan
耄耋之年	mao	nian	old age (in one's 80s, 90s, or more)
而立之年	er	nian	(idiom) the age of 30
耍嘴皮	shua	pi	to show off with clever talk; big-headed; a smart-ass
耍嘴皮子	shua	zi	to talk glibly; to talk big; to be all talk
耍坛子	shua	zi	to perform a jar juggling and balancing act
耍小聪明	shua	ming	to get smart; to resort to petty tricks
耍得团团转	shua	zhuan	to fool; to dupe
耍手腕	shua	wan	to play tricks; to maneuver
耍无赖	shua	lai	to act shamelessly; to behave in a way that leaves others tut-tutting and shaking their heads in disapproval
耍滑头	shua	tou	see 耍滑[shua3 hua2]
耍狮子	shua	zi	to perform a lion dance
耍私情	shua	qing	the play of passions; carried away by passion (e.g. to commit a crime)
耍笔杆	shua	gan	to craft facile prose; to play around with words
耍脾气	shua	qi	to go into a huff
耍花招	shua	zhao	to play tricks on sb
耍花枪	shua	qiang	to play tricks; to dupe
耍花样	shua	yang	to play tricks on sb
耍贫嘴	shua	zui	(coll.) to wag one's tongue; to indulge in idle gossip and silly jokes; to chatter endlessly
耐人寻味	nai	wei	(idiom) thought-provoking; to provide food for thought
耐力赛	nai	sai	endurance race
耐受力	nai	li	tolerance; ability to survive; hardiness
耐受性	nai	xing	tolerance (to heat, acid etc); resistance
耐心烦	nai	fan	(coll.) patience
耐水性	nai	xing	waterproof
耐洗涤性	nai	xing	washing or color fastness; launderability
耐火土	nai	tu	fire clay
耐火砖	nai	zhuan	refractory brick; firebrick
耐用品	nai	pin	durable goods
耐腐蚀	nai	shi	proof against corrosion
耐药性	nai	xing	drug resistance; drug tolerance (medicine)
耐高温	nai	wen	heat-resistant
耒阳市	lei	shi	Leiyang, a county-level city in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
耕者有其田	geng	tian	"land to the tiller", post-Liberation land reform movement instigated by the CCP
耗子尾汁	hao	zhi	you're on your own (pun on 好自為之|好自为之[hao3 zi4 wei2 zhi1])
耗时耗力	hao	li	requiring much time and effort
耗油量	hao	liang	fuel consumption
耙耳朵	pa	duo	(dialect) henpecked; to be under one's wife's thumb
耳下腺	er	xian	subauricular gland; parotid gland (salivary gland in the cheek)
耳刮子	er	zi	(coll.) a slap on the side of the head
耳听为虚眼见为实	er	shi	(idiom) what one hears may be unreliable, but what one sees is true; seeing is believing
耳坠子	er	zi	eardrops (pendant jewelry); earrings; CL:對|对[dui4],隻|只[zhi1]
耳廓狐	er	hu	fennec; Vulpes zerda
耳括子	er	zi	variant of 耳刮子[er3 gua1 zi5]
耳挖勺	er	shao	(dialect) earpick; curette
耳挖子	er	zi	earpick; curette
耳掴子	er	zi	slap
耳提面命	er	ming	to give sincere advice (idiom); to exhort earnestly
耳旁风	er	feng	lit. wind past your ear; fig. sth you don't pay much attention to; in one ear and out the other
耳朵眼儿	er	r	earhole; ear piercing hole; earring hole
耳朵软	er	ruan	credulous
耳根子	er	zi	ear
耳根子软	er	ruan	credulous
耳根清净	er	jing	lit. ears pure and peaceful (idiom); to stay away from the filth and unrest of the world
耳根软	er	ruan	credulous
耳温枪	er	qiang	ear thermometer
耳源性	er	xing	otogenic
耳源性眩晕	er	yun	aural vertigo
耳濡目染	er	ran	to be influenced
耳熟能详	er	xiang	what's frequently heard can be repeated in detail (idiom)
耳目一新	er	xin	a pleasant change; a breath of fresh air; refreshing
耳石症	er	zheng	benign paroxysmal positional vertigo; BPPV
耳聪目明	er	ming	sharp ears and keen eyes (idiom); keen and alert; perceptive
耳边风	er	feng	lit. wind past your ear; fig. sth you don't pay much attention to; in one ear and out the other
耳闻不如目见	er	jian	seeing sth for oneself is better than hearing about it from others
耳闻目睹	er	du	to witness personally
耳顺之年	er	nian	(idiom) 60 years old
耳鬓厮磨	er	mo	lit. to play together ear to ear and temple to temple (idiom); fig. (of a boy and a girl) to play together often during childhood
耳鼻咽喉	er	hou	ear nose and throat; otolaryngology
耶利哥	ye	ge	Jericho (Biblical city)
耶利米	ye	mi	Jeremy or Jeremiah (name)
耶利米书	ye	shu	Book of Jeremiah
耶利米哀歌	ye	ge	the Lamentations of Jeremiah
耶和华	ye	hua	Jehovah (biblical name for God, Hebrew: YHWH); compare Yahweh 雅威[Ya3 wei1] and God 上帝[Shang4 di4]
耶和华见证人	ye	ren	Jehovah's Witnesses
耶哥尼雅	ye	ya	Jechoniah or Jeconiah (son of Josiah)
耶弗他	ye	ta	Jephthah (Hebrew: Yiftach) son of Gilead, Judges 11-foll.
耶律大石	ye	shi	Yollig Taxin or Yelü Dashi (1087-1143), Chinese-educated Khitan leader, founder of Western Liao 西遼|西辽 in Central Asia
耶律楚材	ye	cai	Yelü Chucai (1190-1244), Khitan statesman and advisor to Genghis Khan and Ögödei Khan, known for convincing the Mongols to tax the conquered population of the north China plains rather than slaughter it
耶洗别	ye	bie	Jezebel, wife of Ahab and mother of Ahaziah, major character in 1 Kings 16:31, 19:1, 21 and 2 Kings 9, killed by Jehu 耶戶|耶户[Ye1 hu4]
耶烈万	ye	wan	Yerevan, capital of Armenia; also written 埃里溫|埃里温[Ai1 li3 wen1]
耶稣会	ye	hui	The Jesuits (Society of Jesus)
耶稣会士	ye	shi	a Jesuit; member of Society of Jesus
耶稣光	ye	guang	crepuscular rays; sunbeams
耶稣升天节	ye	jie	Ascension Day (Christian festival forty days after Easter)
耶稣受难节	ye	jie	Good Friday
耶稣基督	ye	du	Jesus Christ
耶稣教	ye	jiao	Protestantism
耶诞节	ye	jie	(Tw) Christmas
耶路撒冷	ye	leng	Jerusalem
耶酥会	ye	hui	the Society of Jesus; the Jesuits
耶酥会士	ye	shi	a Jesuit
耶鲁大学	ye	xue	Yale University
耸人听闻	song	wen	to sensationalize (idiom); deliberate exaggeration to scare people
耿耿于怀	geng	huai	to take troubles to heart (idiom); brooding
耿马傣族佤族自治县	geng	xian	Gengma Dai and Va Autonomous County, in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
耿马县	geng	xian	see 耿馬傣族佤族自治縣|耿马傣族佤族自治县[Geng3 ma3 Dai3 zu2 Wa3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
聂卫平	nie	ping	Nie Weiping (1952–), Chinese professional Go player
聂姆曹娃	nie	wa	Božena Němcová (1820-1862), Czech writer
聂拉木	nie	mu	see 聶拉木縣|聂拉木县[Nie4 la1 mu4 Xian4]
聂拉木县	nie	xian	Nyalam, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
聂荣县	nie	xian	Nyainrong, a county in Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
聊以塞责	liao	ze	in order to minimally fulfill one's responsibilities; in order to get off the hook
聊以自慰	liao	wei	to find some consolation (idiom); to find relief in
聊以解闷	liao	men	to use it for the purpose of relieving the tedium to some extent
聊城市	liao	shi	Liaocheng, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
聊备一格	liao	ge	to use as a stopgap; to make a perfunctory gesture; token; nominal
聊天儿	liao	r	erhua variant of 聊天[liao2 tian1]
聊天室	liao	shi	chat room
聊斋志异	liao	yi	Strange Stories from a Chinese Studio, Qing dynasty book of tales by 蒲松齡|蒲松龄[Pu2 Song1 ling2]
聊胜于无	liao	wu	better than nothing (idiom)
聊表寸心	liao	xin	see 聊表心意[liao2 biao3 xin1 yi4]
聊表心意	liao	yi	(idiom) to offer as a small token of one's feelings
聋哑人	long	ren	a deaf and mute person
职业中学	zhi	xue	vocational high school
职业倦怠症	zhi	zheng	professional boredom syndrome
职业化	zhi	hua	professionalization
职业教育	zhi	yu	vocational training
职业病	zhi	bing	occupational disease
职业素质	zhi	zhi	professionalism
职业运动员	zhi	yuan	professional (athlete); pro
职业高中	zhi	zhong	vocational high school (abbr. to 職高|职高[zhi2 gao1])
职业高尔夫球协会	zhi	hui	Professional Golfer's Association (PGA)
职能治疗	zhi	liao	occupational therapy
职能治疗师	zhi	shi	occupational therapist
联产到劳	lian	lao	to pay sb according to their productivity
联产到户	lian	hu	household responsibility system, introduced in the early 1980s, under which each rural household could freely decide what to produce and how to sell, as long as it fulfilled its quota of products to the state
联体别墅	lian	shu	townhouse
联合会	lian	hui	federation
联合公报	lian	bao	joint announcement
联合军演	lian	yan	joint military exercise
联合包裹服务公司	lian	si	United Parcel Service (UPS)
联合古大陆	lian	lu	Pangea or Pangaea
联合品牌	lian	pai	to cobrand
联合国	lian	guo	United Nations
联合国儿童基金会	lian	hui	United Nations Children's Fund; UNICEF
联合国大会	lian	hui	United Nations General Assembly
联合国安全理事会	lian	hui	United Nations Security Council
联合国宪章	lian	zhang	United Nations charter
联合国开发计划署	lian	shu	United Nations Development Program
联合国教科文组织	lian	zhi	UNESCO, United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization
联合国海洋法公约	lian	yue	United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea
联合国环境规划署	lian	shu	United Nations Environment Program (UNEP)
联合国秘书处	lian	chu	United Nations Secretariat
联合国粮农组织	lian	zhi	Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO)
联合声明	lian	ming	joint declaration
联合式合成词	lian	ci	coordinative compound word
联合技术公司	lian	si	United Technologies Corporation
联合报	lian	bao	United Daily News, Taiwan newspaper
联合收割机	lian	ji	combine (i.e. combine harvester)
联合政府	lian	fu	coalition government
联合王国	lian	guo	United Kingdom
联合组织	lian	zhi	syndicate
联合自强	lian	qiang	to combine together for self-improvement; joint movement for self-strengthening
联合舰队	lian	dui	combined fleet
联名信	lian	xin	joint letter
联席会议	lian	yi	joint conference
联席董事	lian	shi	associate director
联想学习	lian	xi	associative learning
联想起	lian	qi	to associate; to think of
联想集团	lian	tuan	Lenovo Group (PRC computer firm)
联机分析处理	lian	li	(computing) OLAP (online analytical processing)
联机游戏	lian	xi	a network computer game
联欢会	lian	hui	social gathering; party
联盟号	lian	hao	Soyuz (union), Russian spacecraft series
联立方程式	lian	shi	(math.) simultaneous equations; system of equations
联系人	lian	ren	contact person
联系方式	lian	shi	contact details
联结主义	lian	yi	connectionism
联结车	lian	che	(Tw) 18-wheeler; big rig; semi-trailer
联络人	lian	ren	(Tw) contact person
联络官	lian	guan	liaison officer
联络簿	lian	bu	contact book
联绵词	lian	ci	two-syllable word featuring alliteration or rhyme, such as 玲瓏|玲珑[ling2 long2]
联调联试	lian	shi	debugging and commissioning; testing (of a whole system)
联谊会	lian	hui	association; club; society
联轴器	lian	qi	(mechanics) coupler; coupling
联轴节	lian	jie	(mechanics) coupling
联运票	lian	piao	transfer ticket
联通红筹公司	lian	si	Unicom Red Chip, Hong Kong subsidiary of China Unicom 中國聯通|中国联通[Zhong1 guo2 Lian2 tong1]
联邦制	lian	zhi	federal; federal system
联邦州	lian	zhou	federal state; German Bundesland
联邦德国	lian	guo	German Federation; Bundesrepublik Deutschland; Germany
联邦快递	lian	di	FedEx
联邦政府	lian	fu	federal government
联邦紧急措施署	lian	shu	Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA)
联邦调查局	lian	ju	Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)
联邦通信委员会	lian	hui	Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
聘娶婚	pin	hun	formal betrothal (in which the boy's family sends presents to the girl's family)
聚丙烯	ju	xi	polypropylene
聚乙烯	ju	xi	polythene; polyethylene
聚众淫乱罪	ju	zui	group licentiousness (offense punishable by up to five years in prison in the PRC)
聚光太阳能	ju	neng	concentrating solar power (CSP)
聚光灯	ju	deng	spotlight
聚变反应	ju	ying	nuclear fusion
聚变武器	ju	qi	fusion-type weapon
聚合体	ju	ti	aggregate; polymer
聚合作用	ju	yong	polymerization
聚合物	ju	wu	polymer
聚合酶	ju	mei	polymerase (enzyme)
聚四氟乙烯	ju	xi	polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) (often referred to by the trademark Teflon)
聚在一起	ju	qi	to get together
聚宝盆	ju	pen	(mythology) treasure bowl; (fig.) cornucopia; abundant source of wealth or other valuable resources
聚少成多	ju	duo	see 積少成多|积少成多[ji1 shao3 cheng2 duo1]
聚少离多	ju	duo	(of a husband and wife etc) to spend more time apart than together; to see each other very little
聚居地	ju	di	inhabited land; habitat
聚氨酯	ju	zhi	polyurethane
聚氯乙烯	ju	xi	polyvinyl chloride (PVC)
聚沙成塔	ju	ta	(lit.) many sand grains accumulate to form a tower (idiom); (fig.) many little things add up to sth great
聚甲醛	ju	quan	polyformaldehyde (CH2O)n
聚碳酸酯	ju	zhi	polycarbonate
聚精会神	ju	shen	to concentrate one's attention (idiom)
聚苯乙烯	ju	xi	polystyrene
聚萤映雪	ju	xue	lit. to collect fireflies and study by their light (idiom); fig. ambitious student from impoverished background; burning the midnight oil
聚讼纷纭	ju	yun	(of a body of people) to offer all kinds of different opinions (idiom); to argue endlessly
聚酯树脂	ju	zhi	polyester resin
聚酯纤维	ju	wei	polyester fiber
聚酰亚胺	ju	an	polyimide
聚酰胺	ju	an	(chemistry) polyamide
聪明一世懵懂一时	cong	shi	see 聰明一世，糊塗一時|聪明一世，糊涂一时[cong1 ming5 yi1 shi4 , hu2 tu5 yi1 shi2]
聪明一世糊涂一时	cong	shi	(idiom) even the wisest can have a momentary lapse in judgment; every man has a fool in his sleeve
聪明伶俐	cong	li	(idiom) bright; clever; quick-witted
聪明反被聪明误	cong	wu	(idiom) a clever person may become the victim of his own ingenuity; cleverness may overreach itself; too smart for one's own good
聪明才智	cong	zhi	intelligence and ability
聪明绝顶	cong	ding	exceptionally intelligent; brilliant
聪明过头	cong	tou	too clever by half; excessive ingenuity
肃北县	su	xian	see 肅北蒙古族自治縣|肃北蒙古族自治县[Su4 bei3 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
肃北蒙古族自治县	su	xian	Subei Mongol Autonomous County, in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
肃南县	su	xian	see 肅南裕固族自治縣|肃南裕固族自治县[Su4 nan2 Yu4 gu4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
肃南裕固族自治县	su	xian	Sunan Yugur Autonomous County, in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
肃反运动	su	dong	purge of counterrevolutionaries (esp. Mao's purge of hidden counterrevolutionaries 1955-56 and Stalin's Great Purge 1936-38)
肃宁县	su	xian	Suning, a county in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
肃州区	su	qu	Suzhou, a district of Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
肃然起敬	su	jing	to feel deep veneration for sb (idiom)
肄业生	yi	sheng	dropout student
肄业证书	yi	shu	certificate of partial completion; certificate of attendance (for a student who did not graduate)
肆意妄为	si	wei	see 恣意妄為|恣意妄为[zi4 yi4 wang4 wei2]
肆无忌惮	si	dan	absolutely unrestrained; unbridled; without the slightest scruple
肇东市	zhao	shi	Zhaodong, a county-level city in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
肇事者	zhao	zhe	offender; culprit
肇事逃逸	zhao	yi	hit-and-run
肇俊哲	zhao	zhe	Zhao Junzhe (1979-), Chinese football player
肇州县	zhao	xian	Zhaozhou, a county in Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
肇庆大学	zhao	xue	Zhaoqing University (Guangdong)
肇庆市	zhao	shi	Zhaoqing, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
肇源县	zhao	xian	Zhaoyuan, a county in Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
肉中刺	rou	ci	a thorn in one's flesh
肉乎乎	rou	hu	plump; fleshy
肉包子打狗	rou	gou	lit. to fling a meat bun at a dog (idiom); fig. to flush (one's money or efforts) down the toilet; to kiss sth goodbye
肉呼呼	rou	hu	variant of 肉乎乎[rou4 hu1 hu1]
肉嘟嘟	rou	du	chubby
肉垂麦鸡	rou	ji	(bird species of China) red-wattled lapwing (Vanellus indicus)
肉夹馍	rou	mo	lit. meat wedged in steamed bun; "Chinese burger"; sliced meat sandwich popular in north China
肉孜节	rou	jie	see 開齋節|开斋节[Kai1 zhai1 jie2]
肉搏战	rou	zhan	hand-to-hand combat
肉毒中毒	rou	du	botulism
肉毒杆菌	rou	jun	Clostridium botulinum (bacterium that produces botulinum toxin)
肉毒杆菌毒素	rou	su	botulinum toxin
肉毒梭状芽孢杆菌	rou	jun	Clostridium botulinum
肉毒素	rou	su	botulinum toxin (abbr. for 肉毒桿菌毒素|肉毒杆菌毒素[rou4 du2 gan3 jun1 du2 su4])
肉汤面	rou	mian	noodles in meat soup
肉烂在锅里	rou	li	lit. the meat falls apart as it stews, but it all stays in the pot (idiom); fig. some of us may lose or gain, but in any case the benefits don't go to outsiders
肉眼凡胎	rou	tai	ignoramus (idiom)
肉眼观察	rou	cha	observation by naked eye
肉芽肿	rou	zhong	(pathology) granuloma
肉蒲团	rou	tuan	The Carnal Prayer Mat, Chinese erotic novel from 17th century, usually attributed to Li Yu 李漁|李渔[Li3 Yu3]
肉豆蔻	rou	kou	nutmeg (Myristica fragrans Houtt); mace; Myristicaceae (family of plants producing aromatic or hallucinogenic oils)
肉豆蔻科	rou	ke	Myristicaceae (family of plants including nutmeg)
肉质根	rou	gen	succulent root (botany)
肉足鹱	rou	hu	(bird species of China) flesh-footed shearwater (Puffinus carneipes)
肉食动物	rou	wu	carnivore
肉骨茶	rou	cha	bak-kut-teh or pork ribs soup, popular in Malaysia and Singapore
肋间肌	lei	ji	intercostal muscle
肌动蛋白	ji	bai	actin
肌原纤维	ji	wei	(anatomy) myofibril
肌少症	ji	zheng	(medicine) sarcopenia
肌球蛋白	ji	bai	myosin (biochemistry)
肌电图	ji	tu	electromyogram (EMG)
肌纤维	ji	wei	muscle fiber
肌纤蛋白	ji	bai	myocilin; muscle fibrin
肌肉发达	ji	da	muscular
肌肉松弛剂	ji	ji	muscle relaxant (medicine)
肌肉注射	ji	she	intramuscular injection
肌肉男	ji	nan	muscular man; muscleman
肌肉组织	ji	zhi	muscle tissue
肌肉萎缩症	ji	zheng	muscular dystrophy
肌肉记忆	ji	yi	muscle memory
肌苷酸二钠	ji	na	disodium inosinate (E631)
肏你妈	cao	ma	fuck your mother (vulgar)
肖伯纳	xiao	na	Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), Irish-born British playwright
肖像权	xiao	quan	portrait rights; right to one's image
肚子痛	du	tong	stomachache; bellyache
肚皮舞	du	wu	belly dance
肚脐眼	du	yan	navel; belly button
肛欲期	gang	qi	anal stage (psychology)
肛门直肠	gang	chang	rectum (anatomy)
肝吸虫	gan	chong	liver fluke
肝硬化	gan	hua	cirrhosis
肝肠寸断	gan	duan	lit. liver and guts cut to pieces (idiom); fig. grief-stricken
肝胆相照	gan	zhao	to treat one another with absolute sincerity (idiom); to show total devotion
肝脑涂地	gan	di	to offer one's life in sacrifice
肠套叠	chang	die	intussusception (medicine)
肠易激综合征	chang	zheng	irritable bowel syndrome (IBS)
肠毒素	chang	su	enterotoxins
肠病毒	chang	du	enterovirus
肠胃炎	chang	yan	gastroenteritis
肠胃道	chang	dao	digestive tract
肠蠕动	chang	dong	peristalsis (wave movement of gut wall)
股东大会	gu	hui	general shareholders' meeting
股东特别大会	gu	hui	special shareholders' meeting
股二头肌	gu	ji	biceps femoris (anatomy)
股份公司	gu	si	joint-stock company
股份制公司	gu	si	joint-stock company
股份有限公司	gu	si	joint-stock limited company; corporation
股动脉	gu	mai	femoral artery
股四头肌	gu	ji	quadriceps muscle group; thigh muscles
股本回报率	gu	lv	return on equity (ROE)
股票交易所	gu	suo	stock exchange
股票代号	gu	hao	ticker symbol (to identify share coupon)
股票市场	gu	chang	stock market; stock exchange
股票投资	gu	zi	to invest in stock; to buy shares
股票指数	gu	shu	stock market index; share price index
肢体冲突	zhi	tu	physical encounter; fight
肢体语言	zhi	yan	body language
肥东县	fei	xian	Feidong, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
肥乡区	fei	qu	Feixiang, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
肥城市	fei	shi	Feicheng, a county-level city in Tai'an City 泰安市[Tai4 an1 Shi4], Shandong
肥墩墩	fei	dun	exceedingly obese
肥头大耳	fei	er	fat; plump; chubby
肥水不流外人田	fei	tian	lit. don't let one's own fertile water flow into others' field; fig. keep the goodies within the family (proverb)
肥滋滋	fei	zi	fat; plump
肥田粉	fei	fen	ammonium sulfate fertilizer
肥皂剧	fei	ju	soap opera (loanword)
肥皂水	fei	shui	soapy water
肥皂沫	fei	mo	soapy lather; foam
肥皂泡	fei	pao	soap bubble
肥胖症	fei	zheng	obesity
肥西县	fei	xian	Feixi, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
肥马轻裘	fei	qiu	lit. stout horses and light furs; fig. to live in luxury
肩周炎	jian	yan	adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder)
肩射导弹	jian	dan	shoulder-fired missile
肩并肩	jian	jian	shoulder to shoulder; abreast; side by side
肩胛骨	jian	gu	scapula; shoulder blade
肯塔基	ken	ji	Kentucky, US state
肯定句	ken	ju	affirmative sentence
肯尼亚	ken	ya	Kenya
肯尼迪	ken	di	Kennedy (name); J.F. Kennedy (1917-1963), US Democrat politician, president 1961-1963
肯尼迪航天中心	ken	xin	Kennedy space center, Cape Canaveral 卡納維拉爾角|卡纳维拉尔角[Ka3 na4 wei2 la1 er3 jiao3], Florida
肯尼迪角	ken	jiao	Cape Kennedy, name 1963-1973 of Cape Canaveral 卡納維拉爾角|卡纳维拉尔角[Ka3 na4 wei2 la1 er3 jiao3], Florida
肯德基	ken	ji	KFC (Kentucky Fried Chicken)
肯德拉	ken	la	Kendra (name)
肯普索恩	ken	en	(Dirk) Kempthorne (US Senator from Idaho)
肱三头肌	gong	ji	triceps brachii (back of the upper arm)
肱二头肌	gong	ji	bicipital muscle; biceps
育儿嫂	yu	sao	nanny (for infants and toddlers)
育儿袋	yu	dai	marsupial pouch
育婴假	yu	jia	(Tw) parental leave
育婴师	yu	shi	nanny (for infants and toddlers)
育幼袋	yu	dai	pouch of a female marsupial
育幼院	yu	yuan	orphanage
育龄期	yu	qi	childbearing age
肺刺激性毒剂	fei	ji	lung irritant
肺动脉	fei	mai	pulmonary artery
肺心病	fei	bing	pulmonary heart disease (medicine)
肺栓塞	fei	se	pulmonary embolism (medicine)
肺气肿	fei	zhong	emphysema
肺水肿	fei	zhong	pulmonary edema
肺活量	fei	liang	(medicine) vital capacity
肺炎克雷伯氏菌	fei	jun	Klebsiella pnenmoniae
肺炎双球菌	fei	jun	Diplococcus pneumoniae
肺炎霉浆菌	fei	jun	Mycoplasma pneumoniae
肺结核	fei	he	tuberculosis; TB
肺结核病	fei	bing	tuberculosis, TB
肺结节	fei	jie	(medicine) pulmonary nodule
肺腑之言	fei	yan	words from the bottom of one's heart
肺通气	fei	qi	pulmonary ventilation (medicine)
肽单位	tai	wei	peptide unit (on protein chain)
肽聚糖	tai	tang	peptidoglycan (PG) or murein (polymer of sugars and amino acids forming cell wall)
肾上腺	shen	xian	adrenal glands
肾上腺皮质	shen	zhi	adrenal cortex
肾上腺素	shen	su	adrenaline
肾上腺髓质	shen	zhi	adrenal medulla
肾小球	shen	qiu	glomerulus (medicine)
肾盂炎	shen	yan	pyelitis (medicine)
肾结石	shen	shi	kidney stone
肾衰竭	shen	jie	kidney failure
肿瘤切除术	zhong	shu	lumpectomy
肿瘤学	zhong	xue	oncology
肿瘤科	zhong	ke	oncology
胁从犯	xie	fan	accomplice under duress; coerced accomplice; induced accomplice
胂凡纳明	shen	ming	arsphenamine
胃下垂	wei	chui	gastroptosis
胃小凹	wei	ao	(physiology) gastric pits
胃灼热	wei	re	heartburn; pyrosis
胃绕道	wei	dao	gastric bypass
胃肠道	wei	dao	gastrointestinal tract
胃蛋白酶	wei	mei	pepsin
胆固醇	dan	chun	cholesterol
胆大包天	dan	tian	reckless; extremely daring
胆大妄为	dan	wei	daring; presumptuous; daredevil
胆小如鼠	dan	shu	(idiom) chicken-hearted; gutless
胆小鬼	dan	gui	coward
胆惊心颤	dan	chan	see 心驚膽戰|心惊胆战[xin1 jing1 dan3 zhan4]
胆战心惊	dan	jing	to tremble with fear (idiom); scared witless
胆石症	dan	zheng	gallstone
胆石绞痛	dan	tong	gallstone colic
胆碱酯酶	dan	mei	(biochemistry) cholinesterase
胆红素	dan	su	bilirubin
胆结石	dan	shi	gallstone
胆绿素	dan	su	biliverdin
胆色素	dan	su	bilirubin
胆颤心惊	dan	jing	panic-stricken
背井离乡	bei	xiang	to leave one's native place, esp. against one's will (idiom)
背信弃义	bei	yi	breaking faith and abandoning right (idiom); to betray; treachery; perfidy
背光屏	bei	ping	(electronics) backlit screen
背包客	bei	ke	backpacker
背包游	bei	you	backpacking
背包袱	bei	fu	to have a weight on one's mind; to take on a mental burden
背叛者	bei	zhe	traitor
背地里	bei	li	behind sb's back; secretly
背城借一	bei	yi	to make a last-ditch stand before the city wall (idiom); to fight to the last ditch; to put up a desperate struggle
背夹电池	bei	chi	battery case (for a smartphone)
背对背	bei	bei	back to back
背山临水	bei	shui	with back to the mountain and facing the water (favored location)
背带裤	bei	ku	overalls; dungarees
背影儿	bei	r	erhua variant of 背影[bei4 ying3]
背影杀手	bei	shou	(slang) (usu. of a woman) sb who looks stunning from behind; sb who has a great figure but not necessarily an attractive face; abbr. to 背殺|背杀[bei4 sha1]
背景虚化	bei	hua	background blurring (photography)
背景调查	bei	cha	background check
背景音乐	bei	yue	background music (BGM); soundtrack; musical setting
背水一战	bei	zhan	lit. fight with one's back to the river (idiom); fig. to fight to win or die
背着手	bei	shou	with one's hands clasped behind one's back
背着抱着一般重	bei	zhong	lit. whether one carries it on one's back or in one's arms, it's equally heavy (idiom); fig. one can't avoid the burden
背道而驰	bei	chi	to run in the opposite direction (idiom); to run counter to
背阔肌	bei	ji	latissimus dorsi muscle (back of the chest)
背靠背	bei	bei	back to back
背黑锅	bei	guo	to be made a scapegoat; to be unjustly blamed
胎死腹中	tai	zhong	fetus dies in the belly; (fig.) plans or projects failed before being carried out
胖乎乎	pang	hu	chubby
胖嘟嘟	pang	du	plump; pudgy; chubby
胖墩儿	pang	r	(coll.) short, fat person (esp. a kid); a roly-poly
胖墩墩	pang	dun	short and stout; heavy-set
胖大海	pang	hai	malva nut; seed of Sterculia lychnophora
胖头鱼	pang	yu	see 鱅魚|鳙鱼[yong1 yu2]
胚囊泡	pei	pao	(biology) blastodermic vesicle
胚胎发生	pei	sheng	embryogenesis
胚胎学	pei	xue	embryology
胚芽米	pei	mi	semipolished rice (i.e. rice minus the husk, but including the germ)
胚芽鞘	pei	qiao	coleoptile, protective sheath covering an emerging shoot (botany)
胜不骄败不馁	sheng	nei	no arrogance in victory, no despair in defeat
胜之不武	sheng	wu	(fig.) to fight a one-sided battle; to have an unfair advantage in a contest
胜任能力	sheng	li	competency
胜利在望	sheng	wang	victory is in sight
胜利日	sheng	ri	Victory Day
胜利者	sheng	zhe	victor; winner
胜者王侯败者寇	sheng	kou	the winners become princes and marquises; the losers are vilified as bandits (idiom); history is written by the victors
胜者王侯败者贼	sheng	zei	see 勝者王侯敗者寇|胜者王侯败者寇[sheng4 zhe3 wang2 hou2 bai4 zhe3 kou4]
胜负欲	sheng	yu	desire to win; competitive drive
胞嘧啶	bao	ding	cytosine nucleotide (C, pairs with guanine G 鳥嘌呤|鸟嘌呤 in DNA and RNA)
胡作非为	hu	wei	to run amok (idiom); to commit outrages
胡兀鹫	hu	jiu	(bird species of China) bearded vulture (Gypaetus barbatus)
胡叼盘	hu	pan	derogatory nickname given to Hu Xijin 胡錫進|胡锡进[Hu2 Xi1 jin4] for doing the CCP's bidding as editor of the "Global Times"
胡吃海喝	hu	he	to eat and drink gluttonously; to pig out
胡吃海塞	hu	sai	to stuff oneself with food
胡同儿	hu	r	erhua form of 胡同[hu2 tong4]
胡图族	hu	zu	Hutu, an ethnic group in Rwanda and Burundi
胡塞尔	hu	er	Edmund Husserl (1859–1938), German philosopher
胡天胡帝	hu	di	with all the majesty of an emperor (idiom); reckless; intemperate
胡姬花	hu	hua	Vanda miss joaquim (hybrid orchid), national flower of Singapore
胡志强	hu	qiang	Jason Hu (1948-), former Taiwan foreign minister
胡志明	hu	ming	Ho Chi Minh (1890-1969), former Vietnamese leader; see also 胡志明市[Hu2 Zhi4 ming2 Shi4]
胡志明市	hu	shi	Ho Chi Minh City a.k.a. Saigon, Vietnam
胡思乱想	hu	xiang	(idiom) to indulge in flights of fancy; to let one's imagination run wild
胡慧中	hu	zhong	Sibelle Hu (1958-), Taiwanese actress
胡扯八溜	hu	liu	to talk nonsense
胡扯淡	hu	dan	nonsense; irresponsible patter
胡搅蛮缠	hu	chan	(idiom) to pester endlessly
胡桃夹子	hu	zi	The Nutcracker (ballet)
胡椒喷雾	hu	wu	pepper spray; OC spray
胡椒子	hu	zi	peppercorn; seeds of pepper
胡椒属	hu	shu	pepper genus (Piper spp.)
胡椒粉	hu	fen	ground pepper (i.e. powder)
胡椒粒	hu	li	peppercorn; seeds of pepper
胡椒薄荷	hu	he	peppermint
胡温新政	hu	zheng	Hu-Wen New Administration (formed in 2003), ostensibly reform-oriented leadership of Hu Jintao 胡錦濤|胡锦涛[Hu2 Jin3 tao1] and Wen Jiabao 溫家寶|温家宝[Wen1 Jia1 bao3]
胡燕妮	hu	ni	Jenny Hu (1945-), Hong Kong actress
胡琴儿	hu	r	erhua variant of 胡琴[hu2 qin2]
胡瓜鱼	hu	yu	smelt (family Osmeridae)
胡紫薇	hu	wei	Hu Ziwei (1970-), PRC lady TV presenter
胡编乱造	hu	zao	to concoct a cock-and-bull story (idiom); to make things up
胡耀邦	hu	bang	Hu Yaobang (1915-1989), Chinese politician
胡芦巴	hu	ba	fenugreek
胡萝卜	hu	bo	carrot
胡萝卜素	hu	su	carotene
胡言乱语	hu	yu	babbling nonsense (idiom); crazy and unfounded ravings; double Dutch
胡诌乱扯	hu	che	see 胡謅八扯|胡诌八扯[hu2 zhou1 ba1 che3]
胡诌乱说	hu	shuo	see 胡謅八扯|胡诌八扯[hu2 zhou1 ba1 che3]
胡诌乱道	hu	dao	see 胡謅八扯|胡诌八扯[hu2 zhou1 ba1 che3]
胡诌八扯	hu	che	(idiom) to talk random nonsense; to say whatever comes into one's head
胡说八道	hu	dao	to talk rubbish
胡辣汤	hu	tang	thick, peppery soup originating in Henan, commonly eaten for breakfast
胡鄂公	hu	gong	Hu Egong (1884-1951), Chinese revolutionary and politician
胡锡进	hu	jin	Hu Xijin (1960-), editor-in-chief of the "Global Times" 環球時報|环球时报[Huan2 qiu2 Shi2 bao4] 2005-2021
胡锦涛	hu	tao	Hu Jintao (1942-), General Secretary of the CCP 2002-2012, president of the PRC 2003-2013
胡麻籽	hu	zi	sesame seed
胭脂虫	yan	chong	cochineal insect
胭脂鱼	yan	yu	Chinese high-fin banded shark (Myxocyprinus asiaticus)
胯下之辱	kua	ru	(lit.) the humiliation of having to crawl between the legs of one's adversary (as Han Xin 韓信|韩信[Han2 Xin4] supposedly did rather than engage in a sword fight) (idiom); (fig.) (endure) utter humiliation
胯下物	kua	wu	(slang) male member; package
胰岛素	yi	su	insulin
胰脏炎	yi	yan	pancreatitis
胰腺炎	yi	yan	pancreatitis
胳肢窝	ga	wo	armpit; also pr. [ge1 zhi5 wo1]; also written 夾肢窩|夹肢窝[ga1 zhi5 wo1]
胳膊拧不过大腿	ge	tui	(idiom) the weak cannot overcome the strong
胳膊肘	ge	zhou	elbow
胳膊肘子	ge	zi	see 胳膊肘[ge1 bo5 zhou3]
胳膊肘往外拐	ge	guai	see 胳膊肘朝外拐[ge1 bo5 zhou3 chao2 wai4 guai3]
胳膊肘朝外拐	ge	guai	lit. the elbow turns outward (idiom); fig. to side with outsiders rather than one's own people
胳臂箍儿	ge	r	armband
胳臂肘儿	ge	r	elbow
胶原蛋白	jiao	bai	collagen
胶原质	jiao	zhi	collagen (protein)
胶合板	jiao	ban	plywood
胶囊旅馆	jiao	guan	capsule hotel
胶囊酒店	jiao	dian	capsule hotel
胶州市	jiao	shi	Jiaozhou, a county-level city in Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
胶州湾	jiao	wan	Gulf of Jiaozhou (Shandong province)
胶版印刷	jiao	shua	offset printing
胶黏剂	jiao	ji	glue; adhesive
胸中无数	xiong	shu	see 心中無數|心中无数[xin1 zhong1 wu2 shu4]
胸大无脑	xiong	nao	(having) big boobs but no brain; bimbo
胸大肌	xiong	ji	pectoralis major muscle (across the top of the chest)
胸廓切开术	xiong	shu	thoracotomy (medicine)
胸怀坦荡	xiong	dang	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous; openhearted
胸无城府	xiong	fu	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous
胸无大志	xiong	zhi	to have no aspirations (idiom); unambitious
胸无宿物	xiong	wu	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous
胸有丘壑	xiong	he	far-sighted; astute
胸有城府	xiong	fu	subtle way of thinking (idiom); hard to fathom; deep and shrewd
胸有成略	xiong	lve	the hero has plans already laid (idiom); to have plans ready in advance; forewarned is forearmed
胸有成竹	xiong	zhu	(idiom) to have a well-thought-out plan in mind
胸有成算	xiong	suan	the hero has plans already laid (idiom); to have plans ready in advance; forewarned is forearmed
胸腺嘧啶	xiong	ding	thymine nucleotide (T, pairs with adenine A 腺嘌呤 in DNA)
胸膜炎	xiong	yan	pleurisy
胺基酸	an	suan	(Tw) amino acid
胼手胝足	pian	zu	lit. with calluses on hands and feet (idiom); fig. to work one's fingers to the bone
胼胝体	pian	ti	(anatomy) corpus callosum
能上能下	neng	xia	ready to take any job, high or low
能伸能屈	neng	qu	see 能屈能伸[neng2 qu1 neng2 shen1]
能写会算	neng	suan	(idiom) to be literate and numerate
能动性	neng	xing	initiative; active role
能屈能伸	neng	shen	can bow and submit, or can stand tall (idiom, from Book of Changes); ready to give and take; flexible
能愿动词	neng	ci	modal verb (e.g. 肯[ken3], 能[neng2], 會|会[hui4], 要[yao4], 該|该[gai1], 得[dei3], 願意|愿意[yuan4 yi4], 可以[ke3 yi3], 可能[ke3 neng2], 敢[gan3], 應該|应该[ying1 gai1])
能歌善舞	neng	wu	can sing and dance (idiom); fig. a person of many talents
能源危机	neng	ji	energy crisis
能者多劳	neng	lao	(idiom) it's the most capable people who do the most work (intended as consolation for the overworked, or flattery when making a request etc)
能见度	neng	du	visibility
能言善辩	neng	bian	glib of tongue (idiom); eloquent
能诗善文	neng	wen	highly literate; lit. capable at poetry, proficient at prose
能说会道	neng	dao	can talk really well (idiom); the gift of the gab
能量代谢	neng	xie	energy metabolism
能量守恒	neng	heng	conservation of energy (physics)
能量饮料	neng	liao	energy drink
脂环烃	zhi	ting	alicyclic hydrocarbon (i.e. involving ring other than benzene ring)
脂粉气	zhi	qi	feminine quality; effeminate
脂肪团	zhi	tuan	cellulite
脂肪肝	zhi	gan	fatty liver
脂肪酸	zhi	suan	fatty acid
脂蛋白	zhi	bai	lipoprotein
脂质体	zhi	ti	liposome (bilayer lipid vesicle)
脆谷乐	cui	le	Cheerios (breakfast cereal)
脉冲星	mai	xing	pulsar (astronomy)
脉冲波	mai	bo	see 脈衝|脉冲[mai4 chong1]
脉管组织	mai	zhi	vascular tissue
脉络膜	mai	mo	choroid (vascular layer of the eyeball between the retina and the sclera)
脊柱侧凸	ji	tu	scoliosis
脊柱侧弯	ji	wan	scoliosis
脊柱裂	ji	lie	spina bifida
脊梁骨	ji	gu	backbone
脊椎侧弯	ji	wan	scoliosis
脊椎动物	ji	wu	vertebrate
脊椎动物门	ji	men	Vertebrata, the phylum of vertebrates
脊椎指压治疗师	ji	shi	chiropractor
脊椎指压疗法	ji	fa	chiropractic therapy
脊椎骨	ji	gu	vertebra
脊索动物	ji	wu	chordata
脊索动物门	ji	men	Chordata, phylum containing vertebrates
脊骨神经医学	ji	xue	chiropractic
脊髓灰质炎	ji	yan	poliomyelitis
脊髓炎	ji	yan	myelitis; inflammation of spinal cord
脍炙人口	kuai	kou	appealing to the masses; universally appreciated (idiom)
脏乱差	zang	cha	(coll.) squalid; squalor
脏兮兮	zang	xi	dirty; filthy
脏脏包	zang	bao	pastry bun filled with chocolate and covered with cocoa powder
脑下垂体	nao	ti	pituitary glands (at the base of the skull)
脑中风	nao	feng	cerebral stroke
脑充血	nao	xue	stroke; cerebral hemorrhage
脑内啡	nao	fei	endorphin
脑出血	nao	xue	cerebral hemorrhage
脑力劳动	nao	dong	mental labor; intellectual work
脑力激荡	nao	dang	to brainstorm
脑卒中	nao	zhong	stroke; cerebral hemorrhage
脑回路	nao	lu	train of thought; way of thinking
脑垂体	nao	ti	pituitary gland
脑子有泡	nao	pao	soft in the head; brainless; dumb
脑子进水	nao	shui	to have lost one's mind; crazy; soft in the head
脑性麻痹	nao	bi	cerebral palsy; spasticity
脑成像技术	nao	shu	brain imaging technique
脑损伤	nao	shang	brain damage
脑机接口	nao	kou	brain-computer interface
脑梗塞	nao	se	cerebral infarction
脑梗死	nao	si	cerebral infarction
脑死亡	nao	wang	brain death
脑残粉	nao	fen	(slang) fanboy; fangirl
脑水肿	nao	zhong	cerebral edema
脑洞大开	nao	kai	imaginative; to have one's mind buzzing with ideas
脑溢血	nao	xue	cerebral hemorrhage; stroke
脑满肠肥	nao	fei	(idiom) overweight as a result of living a life of privilege
脑瓜儿	nao	r	erhua variant of 腦瓜|脑瓜[nao3 gua1]
脑瓜子	nao	zi	see 腦瓜|脑瓜[nao3 gua1]
脑瓢儿	nao	r	top of the head; crown
脑电图	nao	tu	electroencephalogram (EEG)
脑电波	nao	bo	see 腦波|脑波[nao3 bo1]
脑神经	nao	jing	cranial nerves
脑细胞	nao	bao	brain cell
脑肿瘤	nao	liu	brain tumor
脑脊液	nao	ye	cerebrospinal fluid (CSF)
脑膜炎	nao	yan	meningitis
脑血管屏障	nao	zhang	blood brain barrier
脑血管疾病	nao	bing	cerebrovascular disease
脑袋开花	nao	hua	to blow one's brain out
脑贫血	nao	xue	cerebral anemia
脑起搏器	nao	qi	deep brain stimulator; brain pacemaker
脑门子	nao	zi	forehead (dialect)
脑震荡	nao	dang	(med.) cerebral concussion
脓毒症	nong	zheng	sepsis
脓痂疹	nong	zhen	impetigo (medicine)
脖梗儿	bo	r	erhua form of 脖梗[bo2 geng3]
脖梗子	bo	zi	variant of 脖頸子|脖颈子[bo2 geng3 zi5]
脖颈儿	bo	r	erhua form of 脖頸|脖颈[bo2 geng3]
脖颈子	bo	zi	see 脖頸|脖颈[bo2 geng3]
脚不沾地	jiao	di	feet not touching the ground (idiom); to run like the wind
脚不点地	jiao	di	see 腳不沾地|脚不沾地[jiao3 bu4 zhan1 di4]
脚丫子	jiao	zi	(coll.) foot
脚后跟	jiao	gen	heel
脚孤拐	jiao	guai	bunion; hallux valgus
脚底板	jiao	ban	(coll.) sole of the foot
脚手架	jiao	jia	scaffolding
脚指甲	jiao	jia	toenail
脚正不怕鞋歪	jiao	wai	lit. a straight foot has no fear of a crooked shoe; an upright man is not afraid of gossip (idiom)
脚气病	jiao	bing	beriberi
脚脖子	jiao	zi	(coll.) ankle
脚腕子	jiao	zi	see 腳腕|脚腕[jiao3 wan4]
脚趾头	jiao	tou	toe
脚跟脚	jiao	jiao	one closely following the other
脚踏两只船	jiao	chuan	to have a foot in both camps; to have a bet each way; to be having an affair
脚踏两条船	jiao	chuan	lit. to stand with each foot in a different boat (idiom); fig. to have it both ways; to run after two hares
脚踏实地	jiao	di	to have one's feet firmly planted on the ground (idiom); realistic without flights of fancy; steady and serious character
脚踏板	jiao	ban	pedal; treadle; (motor scooter) floorboard
脚踏车	jiao	che	(Tw) bicycle; bike; CL:輛|辆[liang4]
脚踏钹	jiao	bo	hi-hat (drum kit component)
脚踩两只船	jiao	chuan	see 腳踏兩隻船|脚踏两只船[jiao3 ta4 liang3 zhi1 chuan2]
脚违例	jiao	li	foot fault (tennis etc)
脚鸭子	jiao	zi	variant of 腳丫子|脚丫子[jiao3 ya1 zi5]
脯氨酸	pu	suan	proline (Pro), an amino acid
脱不了身	tuo	shen	busy and unable to get away
脱亚入欧	tuo	ou	to abandon the old (Asian) ways and learn from Europe; refers to the ideas that led to the Meiji Restoration and Japan's subsequent colonization projects in Asia
脱北者	tuo	zhe	North Korean refugee
脱口秀	tuo	xiu	(loanword) talk show; stand-up comedy
脱口而出	tuo	chu	(idiom) to blurt out; to let slip (an indiscreet remark)
脱咖啡因	tuo	yin	decaffeinated; decaf; see also 無咖啡因|无咖啡因[wu2 ka1 fei1 yin1]
脱毛剂	tuo	ji	depilatory medicine
脱氢酶	tuo	mei	dehydrogenase (enzyme)
脱氧核糖	tuo	tang	deoxyribose
脱氧核糖核酸	tuo	suan	DNA
脱氧核苷酸	tuo	suan	deoxyribonucleoside monophosphate; dNMP
脱氧麻黄碱	tuo	jian	methamphetamine
脱水机	tuo	ji	a device for extracting water (such as a centrifuge)
脱皮掉肉	tuo	rou	lit. to shed skin, drop flesh; to work as hard as possible; to work one's butt off
脱离苦海	tuo	hai	to escape from the abyss of suffering; to shed off a wretched plight
脱粒机	tuo	ji	threshing machine
脱缰之马	tuo	ma	lit. a horse that has thrown off the reins (idiom); runaway horse; out of control
脱缰野马	tuo	ma	a wild horse that refuses to be bridled (a metaphor for sth that runs wild)
脱胎成仙	tuo	xian	reborn as immortal
脱胎换骨	tuo	gu	to shed one's mortal body and exchange one's bones (idiom); born again Daoist; to turn over a new leaf; fig. to change wholly
脱胎漆器	tuo	qi	bodiless lacquerware
脱脂棉	tuo	mian	absorbent cotton
脱色剂	tuo	ji	bleaching agent; decolorant
脱衣服	tuo	fu	undress
脱衣舞	tuo	wu	striptease
脱裤子放屁	tuo	pi	lit. to take off trousers to fart; fig. to do something absolutely unnecessary; fig. to make things too complicated
脱贫致富	tuo	fu	to rise from poverty and become prosperous (idiom); poverty alleviation
脱颖而出	tuo	chu	to reveal one's talent (idiom); to rise above others; to distinguish oneself
脸上贴金	lian	jin	(lit.) to apply gold leaf to the face of a statue (idiom); (fig.) to talk up; to extol the virtues of (oneself or sb else)
脸基尼	lian	ni	facekini
脸巴子	lian	zi	cheek
脸皮厚	lian	hou	brazen
脸皮嫩	lian	nen	bashful; shy
脸皮薄	lian	bao	thin-skinned; sensitive
脸盘儿	lian	r	face; contour of face
脸盲症	lian	zheng	prosopagnosia; face blindness
脸红筋暴	lian	bao	red and tense with anger (idiom)
脸红筋涨	lian	zhang	red and tense with anger (idiom)
脸红脖子粗	lian	cu	red in the face; extremely angry
脸蛋儿	lian	r	cheek; face (often of child)
脸蛋子	lian	zi	cheek; face
脸部表情	lian	qing	facial expression
脸都绿了	lian	le	green in the face (idiom); to look unwell
脸黄肌瘦	lian	shou	see 面黃肌瘦|面黄肌瘦[mian4 huang2 ji1 shou4]
腊八粥	la	zhou	Laba congee, ceremonial rice porridge dish eaten on the 8th day of the 12th month in the Chinese calendar
腊八节	la	jie	Laba rice porridge festival, on the 8th day of the 12th lunar month
腊肠犬	la	quan	dachshund
腌黄瓜	yan	gua	pickle; pickled cucumber
腐殖土	fu	tu	humus (topsoil of decayed vegetation)
腐殖酸	fu	suan	humic acid
腐生兰	fu	lan	Cymbidium macrorrhizum Lindl.
腐蚀剂	fu	ji	a corrosive (chemical)
腐蚀性	fu	xing	(lit. and fig.) corrosive; corrosiveness
腐败罪	fu	zui	the crime of corruption
腓利门书	fei	shu	Epistle of St Paul to Philemon
腓尼基	fei	ji	Phoenicia, ancient civilization along the coast of the Mediterranean Sea
腓特烈斯塔	fei	ta	Fredrikstad (city in Østfold, Norway)
腓立比	fei	bi	Philippi, ancient Macedonian city
腓立比书	fei	shu	Epistle of St Paul to the Philippians
腓肠肌	fei	ji	calf muscle; gastrocnemius muscle
腔棘鱼	qiang	yu	coelacanth
腔肠动物	qiang	wu	Coelenterata (such as jellyfish)
腕管综合症	wan	zheng	carpal tunnel syndrome
腕足动物	wan	wu	brachiopod
腕隧道症候群	wan	qun	carpal tunnel syndrome (pain in the hands due to pressure on the median nerve); median neuropathy at the wrist
腘动脉	guo	mai	popliteal artery (anatomy)
腘旁腱肌	guo	ji	hamstring (anatomy); see also 膕繩肌|腘绳肌[guo2 sheng2 ji1]
腘窝囊肿	guo	zhong	Baker's cyst or popliteal cyst (medicine)
腘绳肌	guo	ji	hamstring (anatomy)
腘静脉	guo	mai	popliteal vein (anatomy)
腥风血雨	xing	yu	(lit.) foul wind and bloody rain (idiom); (fig.) reign of terror; carnage
腮帮子	sai	zi	cheek
腮腺炎	sai	yan	mumps
腰杆子	yao	zi	waist; small of the back; (fig.) backing
腰果鸡丁	yao	ding	chicken with cashew nuts
腰椎间盘	yao	pan	lumbar intervertebral disk
腰椎间盘突出	yao	chu	lumbar disc herniation
腰缠万贯	yao	guan	lit. ten thousand strings of cash in money belt (idiom); carrying lots of money; extremely wealthy; loaded
腰臀比	yao	bi	waist-to-hip ratio
腰金衣紫	yao	zi	golden seal at the waist, purple gown (idiom); in official position
腰间肉	yao	rou	excess fat on the waist; love handles
腱外膜	jian	mo	(anatomy) epitenon
腱鞘炎	jian	yan	tenosynovitis (medicine)
腹吸盘	fu	pan	acetabulum (part of the pelvis bone)
腹直肌	fu	ji	rectus abdominis muscle (aka abdominals or abs)
腹笥便便	fu	pian	a learned person (idiom)
腹股沟	fu	gou	groin (anatomy)
腹背受敌	fu	di	(idiom) to be attacked from the front and rear
腹背相亲	fu	qin	to be on intimate terms with sb (idiom)
腹语师	fu	shi	ventriloquist
腹语术	fu	shu	ventriloquism
腹足纲	fu	gang	gastropod (class of mollusks including snails)
腹部绞痛	fu	tong	abdominal cramping
腺嘌呤	xian	ling	adenine nucleotide (A, pairs with thymine T 胸腺嘧啶 in DNA and with uracil U 尿嘧啶 in RNA)
腺嘌呤核苷三磷酸	xian	suan	adenosine triphosphate (ATP)
腺垂体	xian	ti	pituitary gland
腺病毒	xian	du	adenovirus
腺鼠疫	xian	yi	bubonic plague
腽肭兽	wa	shou	fur seal (Callorhinus ursinus Linnaeus)
腽肭脐	wa	qi	penis and testes of fur seal (used in TCM)
腾冲市	teng	shi	Tengchong, a county-level city in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
腾出手	teng	shou	to get one's hands free (to do sth else)
腾格里	teng	li	Tengri, the sky god in Mongolic and Turkic mythology
腾格里沙漠	teng	mo	Tengger Desert, located in Inner Mongolia and Ningxia
腾空而起	teng	qi	(idiom) to rise into the air
腿号箍	tui	gu	see 腿號|腿号[tui3 hao4]
腿后腱	tui	jian	hamstring muscle
腿玩年	tui	nian	(slang) stunning legs; sexy legs
腿肚子	tui	zi	calf (back of the leg below the knee)
膀大腰圆	bang	yuan	tall and strong; burly; beefy
膀胱气化	pang	hua	(TCM) the extraction of impure fluid by the kidneys and the passing of it from the body by the bladder as urine
膀胱炎	pang	yan	cystitis
膏粱子弟	gao	di	(idiom) pampered scion of a wealthy family
膏药旗	gao	qi	Japanese flag (derog.)
膘肥体壮	biao	zhuang	(of a livestock animal) plump and strong; well-fed
膜翅目	mo	mu	Hymenoptera (insect order including ants and bees)
膝上型	xi	xing	laptop (computer)
膝上型电脑	xi	nao	laptop (computer)
膝上舞	xi	wu	lap dance
膝盖骨	xi	gu	kneecap
膨松剂	peng	ji	leavening agent
膨润土	peng	tu	bentonite (mineralogy)
膳食纤维	shan	wei	dietary fiber
膳魔师	shan	shi	Thermos (brand)
膻中穴	dan	xue	(TCM) acupuncture point CV-17, located in the middle of the chest
臀产式分娩	tun	mian	breech delivery (medicine)
臀位分娩	tun	mian	breech delivery (medicine)
臀位取胎术	tun	shu	breech extraction (medicine)
臀大肌	tun	ji	(anatomy) gluteus maximus
臂力棒	bi	bang	power twister (fitness equipment)
臆想狂	yi	kuang	mythomaniac
臆想症	yi	zheng	mythomania
臊眉耷眼	sao	yan	(dialect) ashamed
臣一主二	chen	er	One has the right to choose the ruler one serves. (ancient proverb)
臧克家	zang	jia	Zang Kejia (1905-2004), Chinese poet
自上而下	zi	xia	(idiom) from top to bottom; top-down
自下而上	zi	shang	(idiom) from bottom to top; from the grass roots up; bottom-up
自不待言	zi	yan	needless to say; it goes without saying
自不必说	zi	shuo	(idiom) needless to say; it goes without saying
自不量力	zi	li	to overestimate one's capabilities (idiom)
自个儿	zi	r	(dialect) oneself; by oneself
自主权	zi	quan	the power to act independently; autonomy; the right of self-determination
自主神经系统	zi	tong	autonomic nervous system
自主系统	zi	tong	autonomous system
自乱阵脚	zi	jiao	(idiom) to lose one's head; to panic; to go to pieces
自以为是	zi	shi	to believe oneself infallible (idiom); to be opinionated
自体免疫疾病	zi	bing	autoimmune disease
自作主张	zi	zhang	(idiom) to act on one's own; to decide for oneself
自作多情	zi	qing	to imagine that one's love is reciprocated; to shower affection on an uninterested party
自作孽	zi	nie	to bring disaster on oneself
自作聪明	zi	ming	(idiom) to think oneself clever
自作自受	zi	shou	(idiom) to reap what one has sown; to stew in one's own juice
自信心	zi	xin	self-confidence
自养生物	zi	wu	(biology) autotroph
自制力	zi	li	self-control
自力更生	zi	sheng	regeneration through one's own effort (idiom); self-reliance
自动付款机	zi	ji	cash dispenser; auto-teller; ATM
自动体外除颤器	zi	qi	AED (automated external defibrillator)
自动免疫	zi	yi	active immunity
自动化	zi	hua	to automate
自动化技术	zi	shu	automation
自动取款机	zi	ji	automated teller machine (ATM)
自动售货机	zi	ji	vending machine
自动扶梯	zi	ti	escalator
自动挂挡	zi	dang	automatic gear change
自动挡	zi	dang	automatic transmission; auto gear shift
自动换刀装置	zi	zhi	automatic tool changer (ATC)
自动控制	zi	zhi	automatic control
自动提款机	zi	ji	bank autoteller; ATM
自动柜员机	zi	ji	automated teller machine (ATM)
自动楼梯	zi	ti	escalator
自动步道	zi	dao	moving walkway; travelator
自动点唱机	zi	ji	jukebox; nickelodeon
自动离合	zi	he	automatic clutch
自动自发	zi	fa	(to act) on one's own initiative
自动装箱	zi	xiang	autoboxing (computing)
自动贩卖机	zi	ji	vending machine
自动车	zi	che	automobile
自动铅笔	zi	bi	mechanical pencil; propelling pencil
自助洗衣店	zi	dian	laundromat; launderette
自助游	zi	you	to travel independently
自助餐	zi	can	buffet; self-service meal
自卑心理	zi	li	sense of inferiority; inferiority complex
自卑情绪	zi	xu	inferiority complex
自卫队	zi	dui	self-defense force; the Japanese armed forces
自卸车	zi	che	dump truck
自发对称破缺	zi	que	spontaneous symmetry breaking (physics)
自发电位	zi	wei	electroencephalogram (EEG)
自发粉	zi	fen	self-rising flour
自取其咎	zi	jiu	see 咎由自取[jiu4 you2 zi4 qu3]
自取其辱	zi	ru	(idiom) to embarrass oneself
自取灭亡	zi	wang	to court disaster (idiom); to dig one's own grave
自变数	zi	shu	(math.) independent variable
自变量	zi	liang	(math.) independent variable
自古以来	zi	lai	since ancient times
自叹不如	zi	ru	to consider oneself as being not as good as the others
自各儿	zi	r	variant of 自個兒|自个儿[zi4 ge3 r5]
自吹自擂	zi	lei	to blow one's own trumpet (idiom)
自告奋勇	zi	yong	to volunteer for; to offer to undertake
自命不凡	zi	fan	to think too much of oneself; self-important; arrogant
自命清高	zi	gao	to think of oneself as high and pure (idiom); smug and self-righteous; holier-than-thou
自圆其说	zi	shuo	(idiom) to make a story or theory consistent; to give a plausible explanation; to plug the holes in one's story
自大狂	zi	kuang	megalomania; egomania; delusions of grandeur
自奉俭约	zi	yue	to live frugally
自奉甚俭	zi	jian	(idiom) to allow oneself few comforts or pleasures
自始至终	zi	zhong	from start to finish (idiom)
自娱自乐	zi	le	to entertain oneself
自媒体	zi	ti	self-media (news or other content published on independently-operated social media accounts)
自学成才	zi	cai	a self-made genius
自定义	zi	yi	custom; user-defined
自家人	zi	ren	sb with whom one is on familiar terms; sb from the same place (same house, same town etc); one of us
自寻死路	zi	lu	to follow the path to one's own doom (idiom); to bring about one's own destruction
自寻烦恼	zi	nao	to bring trouble on oneself (idiom)
自导自演	zi	yan	to direct a movie in which one also plays a major role as an actor; (fig.) to plan and execute a scheme all by oneself
自封袋	zi	dai	resealable bag; ziplock bag
自尊心	zi	xin	self-respect; self-esteem; ego
自己人	zi	ren	those on our side; ourselves; one's own people
自己动手	zi	shou	to do (sth) oneself; to help oneself to
自干五	zi	wu	(neologism) person who posts online in support of the Chinese government, but unlike a wumao 五毛[wu3 mao2], is not paid for doing so (abbr. for 自帶乾糧的五毛|自带干粮的五毛[zi4 dai4 gan1 liang2 de5 wu3 mao2])
自底向上	zi	shang	bottom-up
自强不息	zi	xi	to strive unremittingly; self-improvement
自强自立	zi	li	to strive for self-improvement
自强运动	zi	dong	Self-Strengthening Movement (period of reforms in China c 1861-1894), also named 洋務運動|洋务运动
自律性组织	zi	zhi	Self-Regulation Organization; SRO
自律神经系统	zi	tong	autonomic nervous system
自得其乐	zi	le	to find amusement in one's own way; to enjoy oneself quietly
自怨自艾	zi	yi	to be full of remorse; to repent and redress one's errors
自惭形秽	zi	hui	(idiom) to feel inferior; to feel inadequate
自愧不如	zi	ru	ashamed of being inferior (idiom); to feel inferior to others
自愧弗如	zi	ru	to feel ashamed at being inferior (idiom)
自愿性	zi	xing	voluntary
自愿者	zi	zhe	volunteer; consenting participant
自懂事以来	zi	lai	for as long as one can remember
自成一家	zi	jia	to have a style of one's own
自我介绍	zi	shao	self-introduction; to introduce oneself
自我催眠	zi	mian	self-hypnotism
自我吹嘘	zi	xu	to blow one's own horn (idiom)
自我安慰	zi	wei	to comfort oneself; to console oneself; to reassure oneself
自我实现	zi	xian	self-actualization (psychology); self-realization
自我意识	zi	shi	self-awareness
自我批评	zi	ping	self-criticism
自我解嘲	zi	chao	to refer to one's foibles or failings with self-deprecating humor
自我防卫	zi	wei	self-defense
自我陶醉	zi	zui	self-satisfied; self-imbued; narcissistic
自找苦吃	zi	chi	to bring trouble on oneself
自找麻烦	zi	fan	to ask for trouble; to invite difficulties
自投罗网	zi	wang	to walk right into the trap
自报公议	zi	yi	self-assessment; declare one's state for open discussion
自报家门	zi	men	to introduce oneself; originally a theatrical device in which a character explains his own role
自拍器	zi	qi	camera self-timer (for delayed shutter release)
自拍杆	zi	gan	selfie stick
自拍模式	zi	shi	camera self-timer mode (for delayed shutter release)
自拍照	zi	zhao	selfie
自拍神器	zi	qi	selfie stick
自掏腰包	zi	bao	to pay out of one's own pocket; to dig into one's pocket
自掘坟墓	zi	mu	to dig one's own grave
自暴自弃	zi	qi	to abandon oneself to despair; to give up and stop bothering
自有品牌	zi	pai	private brand
自杀式	zi	shi	suicide (attack); suicidal
自杀式炸弹	zi	dan	a suicide bomb
自杀式爆炸	zi	zha	suicide bombing
自来卷	zi	juan	natural curls; natural wave
自来水	zi	shui	running water; tap water
自来水笔	zi	bi	fountain pen
自来水管	zi	guan	water mains; service pipe; tap-water pipe
自来熟	zi	shu	(coll.) naturally outgoing with strangers; quick to act like an old acquaintance; sb who has this trait
自欺欺人	zi	ren	to deceive others and to deceive oneself; to believe one's own lies
自民党	zi	dang	Liberal Democratic Party (Japanese political party)
自治区	zi	qu	autonomous region – a provincial-level administrative division of China with self-governance for ethnic minorities (five in total: Guangxi, Inner Mongolia, Ningxia, Xinjiang and Tibet)
自治县	zi	xian	autonomous county
自治州	zi	zhou	autonomous prefecture
自治市	zi	shi	municipality; autonomous city; also called directly administered city 直轄市|直辖市
自治旗	zi	qi	autonomous county (in Inner Mongolia); autonomous banner
自治机关	zi	guan	governing body of an autonomous territory
自治权	zi	quan	the right to autonomy; autonomy
自洽性	zi	xing	logical consistency
自流井	zi	jing	see 自流井區|自流井区[Zi4 liu2 jing3 Qu1]
自流井区	zi	qu	Ziliujing, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
自然主义	zi	yi	naturalism (philosophy)
自然之友	zi	you	Friends of Nature (Chinese environmental NGO)
自然人	zi	ren	natural person (law); see also 法人[fa3 ren2]
自然保护区	zi	qu	nature reserve
自然卷	zi	juan	natural curls; natural wave
自然历史	zi	shi	natural history
自然发音	zi	yin	phonics (Tw)
自然史	zi	shi	natural history (i.e. botany and zoology)
自然对数	zi	shu	(math.) natural logarithm
自然层	zi	ceng	natural layer (in an archaeological dig)
自然拼读	zi	du	phonics
自然数	zi	shu	natural number
自然数集	zi	ji	(math.) the set of natural numbers
自然条件	zi	jian	natural conditions
自然段	zi	duan	paragraph
自然法	zi	fa	natural law
自然灾害	zi	hai	natural disaster
自然现象	zi	xiang	natural phenomenon
自然界	zi	jie	nature; the natural world
自然疗法	zi	fa	natural therapy
自然神论	zi	lun	deism, theological theory of God who does not interfere in the Universe
自然科学	zi	xue	natural sciences
自然科学基金会	zi	hui	natural science fund
自然经济	zi	ji	natural economy (exchange of goods by bartering not involving money)
自然而然	zi	ran	(idiom) natural; unforced; (idiom) naturally; as a matter of course; in the natural course of things
自然语言	zi	yan	natural language
自然语言处理	zi	li	natural language processing, NLP
自然资源	zi	yuan	natural resource
自然选择	zi	ze	natural selection
自然醒	zi	xing	to wake up naturally (without an alarm)
自然铜	zi	tong	natural copper; chalcopyrite; copper iron sulfide CuFeS2
自然风光	zi	guang	nature and scenery
自甘堕落	zi	luo	to abandon oneself (idiom); to let oneself go
自生自灭	zi	mie	to emerge and perish on its own; to run its course (idiom)
自由业	zi	ye	(Tw) liberal profession; profession practiced independently rather than as an employee
自由中国	zi	guo	Free China (Cold War era term for the Republic of China on Taiwan, as distinct from "Red China")
自由主义	zi	yi	liberalism
自由亚洲电台	zi	tai	Radio Free Asia
自由企业	zi	ye	free enterprise (in capitalist theory)
自由体操	zi	cao	floor (gymnastics)
自由党	zi	dang	Liberal Party
自由刑	zi	xing	(law) deprivation of freedom
自由化	zi	hua	liberalization; freeing (from sth)
自由古巴	zi	ba	Cuba Libre
自由城	zi	cheng	Freetown, capital of Sierra Leone (Tw)
自由基	zi	ji	free radical
自由基清除剂	zi	ji	radical scavenger (chemistry)
自由女神像	zi	xiang	Statue of Liberty
自由市	zi	shi	Libreville, capital of Gabon (Tw)
自由市场	zi	chang	free market
自由度	zi	du	(number of) degrees of freedom (physics and statistics)
自由式	zi	shi	freestyle (in sports)
自由意志	zi	zhi	free will
自由意志主义	zi	yi	libertarianism
自由放任	zi	ren	laissez-faire
自由散漫	zi	man	easygoing; lax; unconstrained
自由民主党	zi	dang	Liberal Democratic Party
自由泳	zi	yong	freestyle swimming
自由活动	zi	dong	free time (between organized activities)
自由派	zi	pai	liberal
自由港	zi	gang	free port
自由潜水	zi	shui	freediving; skin diving
自由焓	zi	han	free enthalpy (thermodynamics); Gibbs free energy
自由爵士乐	zi	yue	free jazz (music genre)
自由王国	zi	guo	realm of freedom (philosophy)
自由神像	zi	xiang	Statue of Liberty
自由素食主义	zi	yi	Freeganism
自由职业	zi	ye	liberal profession; profession practiced independently rather than as an employee
自由职业者	zi	zhe	self-employed professional; independent practitioner
自由能	zi	neng	(thermodynamics) free energy
自由自在	zi	zai	free and easy (idiom); carefree; leisurely
自由落体	zi	ti	free-fall
自由行	zi	xing	travel organized by oneself rather than in a tour group
自由贸易	zi	yi	free trade
自由贸易区	zi	qu	free trade zone; free trade area
自由软件	zi	jian	free software (i.e. software for which sharing, modification etc is permitted)
自由软件基金会	zi	hui	Free Software Foundation
自由选择权	zi	quan	free agency
自由降落	zi	luo	free fall
自画像	zi	xiang	self-portrait
自留地	zi	di	private plot allocated to an individual on a collective farm
自留山	zi	shan	hilly land allotted for private use
自白书	zi	shu	confession
自相惊扰	zi	rao	to frighten one another
自相残杀	zi	sha	to massacre one another (idiom); internecine strife
自相矛盾	zi	dun	to contradict oneself; self-contradictory; inconsistent
自相鱼肉	zi	rou	butchering one another as fish and flesh (idiom); killing one another; internecine strife
自知之明	zi	ming	(idiom) self-knowledge
自知理亏	zi	kui	to know that one is in the wrong (idiom)
自私自利	zi	li	everything for self and selfish profit (idiom); with no regard for others; selfish; mercenary
自立自强	zi	qiang	to be self-reliant
自立门户	zi	hu	to form one's own group or school of thought; to set up one's own business; to establish oneself
自给自足	zi	zu	self-sufficiency; autarky
自缚手脚	zi	jiao	to bind oneself hand and foot
自耕农	zi	nong	owner peasant; land-holding peasant
自艾自怜	zi	lian	(idiom) to feel sorry for oneself
自花授粉	zi	fen	(botany) self-pollination
自营商	zi	shang	dealer
自行了断	zi	duan	to take one's life
自行其是	zi	shi	to act as one thinks fit; to have one's own way
自行车	zi	che	bicycle; bike; CL:輛|辆[liang4]
自行车架	zi	jia	bike rack; bicycle frame
自行车赛	zi	sai	cycle race
自行车道	zi	dao	bike path; bicycle trail; bike lane
自行车馆	zi	guan	cycling stadium; velodrome
自视清高	zi	gao	to think highly of oneself (idiom); giving oneself airs; arrogant and self-important
自视甚高	zi	gao	to think highly of oneself (idiom); giving oneself airs; arrogant and self-important
自言自语	zi	yu	(idiom) to talk to oneself; to think aloud; to soliloquize
自讨没趣	zi	qu	to invite a snub; to court a rebuff
自讨苦吃	zi	chi	(idiom) to ask for trouble; to make a rod for one's own back
自谋出路	zi	lu	(idiom) to take matters into one's own hands; to go it alone; to fend for oneself
自豪感	zi	gan	pride in sth; self-esteem
自负盈亏	zi	kui	responsible for its profit and losses (of organization); financially autonomous; personal financial responsibility
自贡市	zi	shi	Zigong, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
自贸区	zi	qu	abbr. for 自由貿易區|自由贸易区[zi4 you2 mao4 yi4 qu1]
自贻伊戚	zi	qi	to create trouble for oneself (idiom)
自身利益	zi	yi	one's own interests
自身难保	zi	bao	powerless to defend oneself (idiom); helpless
自转轴	zi	zhou	axis of rotation
自轻自贱	zi	jian	to belittle oneself; self-contempt
自适应	zi	ying	adaptive
自闭症	zi	zheng	autism
自顶向下	zi	xia	top-down
自顾不暇	zi	xia	(idiom) to have one's hands full managing one's own affairs; too busy to spare time for anything extra
自顾自	zi	zi	each minding his own business
自食其力	zi	li	lit. to eat off one's own strength (idiom); fig. to stand on one's own feet; to earn one's own living
自食其果	zi	guo	to eat one's own fruit (idiom); fig. suffering the consequences of one's own action; to reap what one has sown
自食恶果	zi	guo	lit. to eat one's own bitter fruit (idiom); fig. to suffer the consequences of one's own actions; to stew in one's own juice
自食苦果	zi	guo	see 自食惡果|自食恶果[zi4 shi2 e4 guo3]
自驾游	zi	you	to go on a self-drive tour; to go on a road trip
自驾租赁	zi	lin	self-drive hire (of a car etc)
自驾车	zi	che	to drive oneself somewhere; private vehicle; (Tw) self-driving car; autonomous car
自高自大	zi	da	to think of oneself as terrific (idiom); arrogant
自鸣得意	zi	yi	to think highly of oneself
自鸣钟	zi	zhong	chiming clock
臭不可闻	chou	wen	(idiom) to stink to high heaven; (fig.) (idiom) disgraceful; disgusting
臭名昭彰	chou	zhang	notorious for his misdeeds (idiom); infamous
臭名昭著	chou	zhu	notorious; infamous; egregious (bandits)
臭名远扬	chou	yang	stinking reputation; notorious far and wide
臭味相投	chou	tou	to share vile habits; partners in notoriety; birds of a feather
臭子儿	chou	r	dead bullet (one that does not fire); a bad move (in a game of chess)
臭屁虫	chou	chong	stinkbug
臭架子	chou	zi	stinking pretension; to give oneself airs and offend others; hateful arrogance
臭气冲天	chou	tian	(idiom) to stink to high heaven
臭气熏天	chou	tian	overwhelming stench (idiom)
臭氧层	chou	ceng	ozone layer
臭烘烘	chou	hong	stinking
臭熏熏	chou	xun	stinking
臭皮囊	chou	nang	this mortal flesh
臭老九	chou	jiu	stinking intellectual (contemptuous term for educated people during the Cultural Revolution)
臭臭锅	chou	guo	hot pot containing stinky tofu and other ingredients (Taiwanese dish)
臭豆腐	chou	fu	stinky tofu; strong-smelling preserved beancurd; fig. rough exterior but lovable person
至关重要	zhi	yao	extremely important; vital; crucial
至始至终	zhi	zhong	from start to finish
至理名言	zhi	yan	wise saying; words of wisdom
至高无上	zhi	shang	supreme; paramount; unsurpassed
至高统治权	zhi	quan	supreme power; sovereignty
致冷剂	zhi	ji	refrigerant
致力于	zhi	yu	to devote oneself to; to work toward
致命伤	zhi	shang	mortal wound; (fig.) fatal weakness; Achilles' heel
致幻剂	zhi	ji	hallucinogen
致死剂量	zhi	liang	lethal dose
致死性	zhi	xing	lethal; fatal
致死性毒剂	zhi	ji	lethal agent
致死量	zhi	liang	lethal dose
致病性	zhi	xing	pathogenic; pathogenicity
致病菌	zhi	jun	pathogenic bacteria
致癌物	zhi	wu	carcinogen
致癌物质	zhi	zhi	carcinogen; cancer causing substance
臻于完善	zhen	shan	to attain perfection (idiom)
臻于郅治	zhen	zhi	to attain a state of perfect governance (idiom)
臻化境	zhen	jing	to reach the pinnacle (of artistic skill)
舆论界	yu	jie	media; commentators
舆论调查	yu	cha	opinion poll
舌下含服	she	fu	sublingual administration (medicine)
舌下片	she	pian	sublingual tablet (medicine)
舌下腺	she	xian	sublingual gland; saliva gland under tongue
舌乳头	she	tou	lingual papillae; taste buds
舌尖前音	she	yin	alveolar; consonants z, c, s produced with the tip of the tongue on the alveolar ridge
舌尖后音	she	yin	retroflex sound (e.g. in Mandarin zh, ch, sh, r)
舌尖音	she	yin	apical consonant (produced with the tip of the tongue, i.e. d or t)
舌尖颤音	she	yin	alveolar trill (e.g. Russian r sound)
舌灿莲花	she	hua	(idiom) eloquent; entertaining in one's speech
舍不得	she	de	to hate to do sth; to hate to part with; to begrudge
舍不得孩子套不住狼	she	lang	one who is not prepared to risk his child will never catch the wolf (proverb); (fig.) one who is unwilling to take risks will not achieve great things
舍利塔	she	ta	(Buddhism) stupa, mound-shaped monument containing Buddhist relics such as śarīra 舍利[she4 li4]
舍利子	she	zi	see 舍利[she4 li4]
舍利子塔	she	ta	see 舍利塔[she4 li4 ta3]
舍己为人	she	ren	to abandon self for others (idiom, from Analects); to sacrifice one's own interest for other people; altruism
舍己为公	she	gong	to give up one's private interests for the public good (idiom); to behave altruistically; selfless and public spirited
舍己救人	she	ren	to abandon self for others (idiom); to sacrifice oneself to help the people; altruism
舍本逐末	she	mo	to neglect the root and pursue the tip (idiom); to neglect fundamentals and concentrate on details
舍正从邪	she	xie	to be corrupted by evil influences (idiom)
舍生取义	she	yi	to give up life for righteousness (idiom, from Mencius); to choose honor over life; would rather sacrifice one's life than one's principles
舍生忘死	she	si	bravery with no thought of personal safety (idiom); risking life and limb; undaunted by perils
舍身求法	she	fa	to abandon one's body in the search for Buddha's truth (idiom)
舍车保帅	she	shuai	rook sacrifice to save the king (in Chinese chess); fig. to protect a senior figure by blaming an underling; to pass the buck
舐犊之爱	shi	ai	the love of a cow licking her calf (idiom); parental love
舐犊情深	shi	shen	lit. the cow licking its calf fondly (idiom); fig. to show deep affection towards one's children
舒一口气	shu	qi	to heave a sigh of relief
舒兰市	shu	shi	Shulan, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
舒喘灵	shu	ling	albuterol, kind of chemical used in treating asthma
舒城县	shu	xian	Shucheng, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
舒庆春	shu	chun	Shu Qingchun (1899-1966), the real name of author Lao She 老舍[Lao3 She3]
舒张压	shu	ya	diastolic blood pressure
舒梦兰	shu	lan	Shu Menglan (1759-1835), Qin dynasty writer, poet and editor of Anthology of ci poems tunes 白香詞譜|白香词谱
舒眠键	shu	jian	sleep mode button (on the remote control of an air conditioner)
舒肤佳	shu	jia	Safeguard (brand)
舒肥法	shu	fa	(Tw) (loanword) sous vide
舒舒服服	shu	fu	comfortable; with ease
舒芙蕾	shu	lei	(loanword) soufflé
舒适区	shu	qu	comfort zone
舒适圈	shu	quan	comfort zone
舒适音	shu	yin	comfortable voice (well within one's range of pitch)
舒马赫	shu	he	Michael Schumacher (1969-), former German racing driver
舔屁股	tian	gu	to kiss sb's ass; to brown-nose
舜帝陵	shun	ling	several tombs of legendary Emperor Shun, one in Ningyuan county 寧遠縣|宁远县[Ning2 yuan3 xian4] in southwest Hunan, another Yuncheng prefecture 運城|运城[Yun4 cheng2] Shanxi
舜日尧天	shun	tian	sage Emperors Shun and Yao rule every day (idiom); all for the best in the best of all possible worlds
舜日尧年	shun	nian	sage Emperors Shun and Yao rule every day (idiom); all for the best in the best of all possible worlds
舞会舞	wu	wu	party dancing
舞厅舞	wu	wu	ballroom dancing
舞台剧	wu	ju	stage play
舞文弄墨	wu	mo	(idiom) to display one's facility with words; to show off one's literary skills; (original meaning) to pervert the law by playing with legal phraseology (墨[mo4] was a reference to 繩墨|绳墨[sheng2 mo4])
舞水端里	wu	li	Musudan-ri, North Korean rocket launch site in North Hamgyeong Province 咸鏡北道|咸镜北道[Xian2 jing4 bei3 dao4]
舞蹈家	wu	jia	dancer
舞钢市	wu	shi	Wugang, a county-level city in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
舞阳县	wu	xian	Wuyang, a county in Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
舟山市	zhou	shi	Zhoushan, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
舟山群岛	zhou	dao	Zhoushan Island
舟曲县	zhou	xian	Zhouqu, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
舟车劳顿	zhou	dun	travel-worn
航天中心	hang	xin	space center
航天员	hang	yuan	astronaut
航天器	hang	qi	spacecraft
航天局	hang	ju	space agency
航天飞机	hang	ji	space shuttle
航标灯	hang	deng	lighted buoy; channel marking light; signal light
航海家	hang	jia	mariner; seafarer
航海年表	hang	biao	nautical ephemeris
航海者	hang	zhe	navigator
航班表	hang	biao	flight schedule
航空业	hang	ye	aviation industry
航空事业	hang	ye	aviation industry
航空信	hang	xin	airmail letter
航空公司	hang	si	airline; CL:家[jia1]
航空器	hang	qi	aircraft
航空学	hang	xue	aviation science
航空局	hang	ju	aviation agency
航空术	hang	shu	aeronautics
航空母舰	hang	jian	aircraft carrier (CL:艘[sou1]); (fig.) juggernaut
航空母舰战斗群	hang	qun	carrier-based vanguard group (CBVG); naval battle group led by an aircraft carrier
航空港	hang	gang	airfield; aerodrome
航空站	hang	zhan	air terminal
航空线	hang	xian	air route; airway
航空自卫队	hang	dui	air self-defense force
航空航天局	hang	ju	air and space agency
航空运单	hang	dan	Air Waybill (AWB)
航空邮件	hang	jian	airmail
航空邮简	hang	jian	aerogram
航站楼	hang	lou	airport terminal
般若波罗密	bo	mi	prajña paramita (Sanskrit: supreme wisdom - beginning of the Heart Sutra)
般若波罗密多心经	bo	jing	the Heart Sutra
般雀比拉多	ban	duo	Pontius Pilate (in the Biblical passion story)
舰载机	jian	ji	carrier-based aircraft
舱外活动	cang	dong	extravehicular activity (outside space vehicle); EVA
舶来品	bo	pin	(old) imported goods; foreign goods
船上交货	chuan	huo	Free On Board (FOB) (transportation)
船到桥头自然直	chuan	zhi	lit. when the boat reaches the bridge, it will pass underneath without trouble (proverb); fig. everything will be all right
船到桥门自会直	chuan	zhi	lit. when the ship arrives at the bridge we can deal with the problem; no point in worrying about sth until it actually happens (idiom)
船到江心补漏迟	chuan	chi	It's too late to plug the leak once ship is in the middle of the river. (idiom)
船到码头车到站	chuan	zhan	The ship has docked, the carriage has reached the station.; The job is over, it's time to relax. (idiom)
船尾座	chuan	zuo	Puppis (constellation)
船山区	chuan	qu	Chuanshan, a district of Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
船帆座	chuan	zuo	Vela (constellation)
船底座	chuan	zuo	Carina (constellation)
船政大臣	chuan	chen	Minister of Navy during Qing times
船政学堂	chuan	tang	Fuzhou Naval College, a.k.a. Foochow Naval Dockyard School, set up in 1866 by the Qing dynasty
船籍港	chuan	gang	ship's port of registry
船老大	chuan	da	coxswain; steersman; boatswain (bo'sun)
船营区	chuan	qu	Chuanying, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
船运业	chuan	ye	shipping
艇甲板	ting	ban	boat deck (upper deck on which lifeboats are stored)
良宵美景	liang	jing	fine evening, beautiful scenery (idiom)
良家妇女	liang	nv	woman from a respectable family
良工心苦	liang	ku	expert craft from hard practice (idiom); hard-won skill; A masterpiece demands suffering.
良师益友	liang	you	good teacher and helpful friend (idiom); mentor
良庆区	liang	qu	Liangqing, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
良心发现	liang	xian	(idiom) to develop a conscience about sth after previously being unconcerned (usu. resulting in feeling remorse or making amends)
良心喂狗	liang	gou	to have fed one's conscience to the dogs (idiom); devoid of conscience
良心未泯	liang	min	not totally heartless; still having a shred of conscience
良心犯	liang	fan	prisoner of conscience
良性循环	liang	huan	virtuous cycle (i.e. positive feedback loop)
良性肿瘤	liang	liu	benign tumor
良朋益友	liang	you	virtuous companions and worthy friends
良渚文化	liang	hua	Liangzhu (c. 3400-2250 BC), neolithic culture of Changjiang delta
良知良能	liang	neng	instinctive understanding, esp. of ethical issues (idiom); untrained, but with an inborn sense of right and wrong; innate moral sense
良禽择木	liang	mu	a fine bird chooses a tree to nest in (proverb); fig. a talented person chooses a patron of integrity
良禽择木而栖	liang	qi	a fine bird chooses a tree to nest in (proverb); fig. a talented person chooses a patron of integrity
良种繁育	liang	yu	stock breeding (biology)
良苦用心	liang	xin	to ponder earnestly; to give a lot of thought to sth
良药苦口	liang	kou	good medicine tastes bitter (idiom); fig. frank criticism is hard to swallow
良莠不齐	liang	qi	good and bad people intermingled
良辰吉日	liang	ri	fine time, lucky day (idiom); fig. good opportunity
良辰美景	liang	jing	fine time, beautiful scenery (idiom); everything lovely
艰巨性	jian	xing	arduousness; formidability; difficulty
艰深晦涩	jian	se	abstruse and unfathomable (idiom)
艰苦奋斗	jian	dou	to struggle arduously
艰苦朴素	jian	su	leading a plain, hardworking life (idiom)
艰难险阻	jian	zu	untold dangers and difficulties (idiom)
色令智昏	se	hun	to lose one's head over lust; sex-crazy (idiom)
色厉内荏	se	ren	lit. show strength while weak inside (idiom); appearing fierce while cowardly at heart; a sheep in wolf's clothing
色字头上一把刀	se	dao	lit. there is a knife above the character for lust; fig. lascivious activities can lead to bitter consequences
色尼区	se	qu	Seni, a district of Nagqu City 那曲市[Na4 qu3 Shi4], Tibet
色彩缤纷	se	fen	see 五彩繽紛|五彩缤纷[wu3 cai3 bin1 fen1]
色情业	se	ye	porn business
色情作品	se	pin	porn; pornographic material
色情小说	se	shuo	pornographic novel; dirty book
色情片	se	pian	pornographic film
色情狂	se	kuang	mad about sex; nymphomania
色拉寺	se	si	Sera monastery near Lhasa, Tibet
色拉油	se	you	salad oil
色拉酱	se	jiang	salad dressing
色氨酸	se	suan	tryptophan (Trp), an essential amino acid
色球层	se	ceng	chromosphere
色相环	se	huan	color wheel
色眯眯	se	mi	lustful; lecherous
色素体	se	ti	plastid (organelle in plant cell)
色胆包天	se	tian	outrageously bold in one's lust; debauched (idiom)
色胺酸	se	suan	(Tw) tryptophan
色色迷迷	se	mi	crazy about sex; lecherous; horny
色达县	se	xian	Sêrtar, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
色迷迷	se	mi	see 色瞇瞇|色眯眯[se4 mi1 mi1]
色香味俱全	se	quan	to smell, look and taste great
艳如桃李	yan	li	lit. beautiful as peach and prune; fig. radiant beauty
艳红色	yan	se	crimson
艳阳天	yan	tian	bright sunny day; blazing hot day
艺不压身	yi	shen	see 藝多不壓身|艺多不压身[yi4 duo1 bu4 ya1 shen1]
艺多不压身	yi	shen	it's always good to have more skills (idiom)
艺术体操	yi	cao	rhythmic gymnastics
艺术史	yi	shi	art history
艺术品	yi	pin	art piece; work of art; CL:件[jian4]
艺术学院	yi	yuan	art institute; art and drama college
艺术家	yi	jia	artist; CL:個|个[ge4],位[wei4],名[ming2]
艺术片	yi	pian	art film; art house film; CL:部[bu4]
艺术节	yi	jie	arts festival
艺术造街	yi	jie	city precinct with a streetscape created by artists
艺术馆	yi	guan	art gallery; museum of art
艺能界	yi	jie	show business
艾丁湖	ai	hu	Ayding Lake (Aydingkol) in Xinjiang
艾伯塔	ai	ta	Alberta province of Canada, capital Edmonton 埃德蒙頓|埃德蒙顿[Ai1 de2 meng2 dun4]; also written 阿爾伯塔|阿尔伯塔[A1 er3 bo2 ta3]
艾冬花	ai	hua	coltsfoot flower (used in TCM); Flos Farfarae
艾叶油	ai	you	mugwort leaf oil (TCM); also called wormwood leaf oil; Oleum folii Artemisiae argyi
艾叶炭	ai	tan	carbonized mugwort leaf (used in TCM); Folium Artemisiae argyi carbonisatum
艾哈迈德	ai	de	Ahmed (name)
艾哈迈达巴德	ai	de	Ahmedabad, largest city in west Indian state Gujarat 古吉拉特[Gu3 ji2 la1 te4]
艾哈迈迪内贾德	ai	de	Ahmadinejad or Ahmadinezhad (Persian name); Mahmoud Ahmadinejad (1956-), Iranian fundamentalist politician, president of Iran 2005-2013
艾奇逊	ai	xun	Atchison or Acheson (name); Atchison city on Missouri in Kansas, USA
艾奥瓦	ai	wa	Iowa, US state
艾尔伯塔	ai	ta	Alberta province of Canada, capital Edmonton 埃德蒙頓|埃德蒙顿[Ai1 de2 meng2 dun4]; also written 阿爾伯塔|阿尔伯塔[A1 er3 bo2 ta3]
艾尔米塔什	ai	shi	Ermitazh or Hermitage museum in St Peterburg
艾尔米塔奇	ai	ji	Ermitazh or Hermitage museum in St Peterburg
艾弥尔	ai	er	Emile (name)
艾德蒙顿	ai	dun	Edmonton, capital of Alberta, Canada; also written 埃德蒙頓|埃德蒙顿[Ai1 de2 meng2 dun4]
艾普西隆	ai	long	epsilon (Greek letter Ε, ε)
艾曼塔	ai	ta	Emmentaler (cheese)
艾未未	ai	wei	Ai Weiwei (1957-), Chinese artist active in architecture, photography, film, as well as cultural criticism and political activism
艾条温和灸	ai	jiu	gentle stick moxibustion (TCM)
艾条灸	ai	jiu	stick moxibustion; poling (TCM)
艾条雀啄灸	ai	jiu	"sparrow pecking" moxibustion technique (TCM)
艾森豪威尔	ai	er	Dwight D. Eisenhower (1890-1969), US army general and politician, Supreme Allied Commander in Europe during World War II, US President 1953-1961
艾比湖	ai	hu	Aibi Lake (Ebinur) in Xinjiang
艾滋病	ai	bing	(loanword) AIDS
艾滋病毒	ai	du	human immune deficiency virus (HIV); the AIDS virus
艾滋病病毒	ai	du	HIV (human immunodeficiency virus)
艾炷灸	ai	jiu	cone moxibustion (TCM)
艾玛纽埃尔	ai	er	Emmanuel or Emmanuelle (name)
艾瑞巴蒂	ai	di	(Internet slang) (loanword) everybody
艾略特	ai	te	(name) Elliott; Eliot
艾登堡	ai	bao	(name) Attenborough; David Attenborough (1926–), British naturalist and broadcaster
艾窝窝	ai	wo	glutinous rice cake with a sweet filling
艾纳香	ai	xiang	sambong (Blumea balsamifera)
艾美奖	ai	jiang	Emmy Award
艾菲尔铁塔	ai	ta	(Tw) Eiffel Tower
艾萨克	ai	ke	Isaac (name)
艾赛克斯	ai	si	Essex (English county)
艾迪卡拉	ai	la	Ediacaran (c. 635-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era; also written 埃迪卡拉[Ai1 di2 ka3 la1]
艾迪生	ai	sheng	Addison (name); Addison, city in United States
节上生枝	jie	zhi	a new branch grows out of a knot (idiom); fig. side issues keep arising
节假日	jie	ri	public holiday
节哀顺变	jie	bian	(idiom) restrain one's grief and accept what has happened (expression of condolence)
节外生枝	jie	zhi	(idiom) new problems arise unexpectedly
节奏口技	jie	ji	beatboxing
节奏布鲁斯	jie	si	Rhythm and Blues R&B
节度使	jie	shi	Tang and Song dynasty provincial governor, in Tang times having military and civil authority, but only civil authority in Song
节拍器	jie	qi	metronome
节气门	jie	men	throttle
节流踏板	jie	ban	throttle pedal; accelerator
节流阀	jie	fa	a throttle
节略本	jie	ben	abridged version
节礼日	jie	ri	Boxing Day, holiday on 26th December (the day after Christmas Day) in some countries
节肢介体病毒	jie	du	arbovirus
节肢动物	jie	wu	arthropod
节能灯	jie	deng	compact fluorescent lamp (CFL)
节节败退	jie	tui	to retreat again and again in defeat; to suffer defeat after defeat
节衣缩食	jie	shi	to save on food and clothing (idiom); to live frugally
节足动物	jie	wu	arthropod, segmented animals with jointed limbs; same as 節肢動物|节肢动物[jie2 zhi1 dong4 wu4]
节骨眼	jie	yan	(dialect) critical juncture; crucial moment; Taiwan pr. [jie2 gu5 yan3]
节骨眼儿	jie	r	erhua variant of 節骨眼|节骨眼[jie1 gu5 yan3]
芋头色	yu	se	lilac (color)
芋螺毒素	yu	su	conotoxin
芒刺在背	mang	bei	feeling brambles and thorns in one's back (idiom); uneasy and nervous; to be on pins and needles
芒康县	mang	xian	Markam, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
芒果汁	mang	zhi	mango juice
芗城区	xiang	qu	Xiangcheng, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
芙蓉出水	fu	shui	lit. lotus rises from the water (idiom); fig. to blossom (of poem or art)
芙蓉区	fu	qu	Furong, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
芙蓉花	fu	hua	cotton rose hibiscus (Hibiscus mutabilis); lotus
芜湖市	wu	shi	Wuhu, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
芜菁甘蓝	wu	lan	rutabaga (vegetable)
芝兰之室	zhi	shi	lit. a room with irises and orchids (idiom); fig. in wealthy and pleasant company
芝兰玉树	zhi	shu	lit. orchids and jade trees (idiom); fig. a child with splendid future prospects
芝加哥	zhi	ge	Chicago, USA
芝加哥大学	zhi	xue	University of Chicago
芝士蛋糕	zhi	gao	cheesecake
芝焚蕙叹	zhi	tan	lit. when one grass burns the other grass sighs (idiom); fig. to have sympathy with a like-minded person in distress
芝罘区	zhi	qu	Zhifu, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
芝麻包	zhi	bao	sesame bun
芝麻官	zhi	guan	low ranking official; petty bureaucrat
芝麻小事	zhi	shi	trivial matter; trifle
芝麻油	zhi	you	sesame oil
芝麻绿豆	zhi	dou	trivial; minute (size)
芝麻菜	zhi	cai	(botany) arugula; rocket; roquette (subspecies Eruca vesicaria sativa)
芝麻酱	zhi	jiang	sesame paste
芝麻饼	zhi	bing	sesame biscuit
芥子气	jie	qi	mustard gas
芥花油	jie	you	rapeseed oil; canola oil
芥菜籽	jie	zi	mustard seed
芦山县	lu	xian	Lushan, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
芦柴棒	lu	bang	reed stem; (fig.) extremely skinny person
芦沟桥	lu	qiao	variant of 盧溝橋|卢沟桥[Lu2 gou1 Qiao2]
芦洲市	lu	shi	Luzhou or Luchou city in New Taipei City 新北市[Xin1 bei3 shi4], Taiwan
芦淞区	lu	qu	Lusong, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
芦溪县	lu	xian	Luxi, a county in Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
芦花黄雀	lu	que	oriental greenfinch (Carduelis sinica)
芦苇荡	lu	dang	reedy wetland
芦苇莺	lu	ying	(bird species of China) common reed warbler (Acrocephalus scirpaceus)
芫花素	yuan	su	genkwanin
芫荽叶	yan	ye	coriander leaf
芬兰语	fen	yu	Finnish (language); suomen kieli
芬多精	fen	jing	phytoncide (biochemistry)
芬太尼	fen	ni	(loanword) fentanyl
芭乐歌	ba	ge	(Tw) ballad (loanword); mainstream song
芭乐票	ba	piao	(Tw) bounced check; bad check
芭拉芭拉	ba	la	para para, a Eurobeat dance originating in Japan, with synchronized upper body movements (loanword from Japanese)
芭提雅	ba	ya	Pattaya, Thailand
芭芭拉	ba	la	Barbara or Barbra (name)
芭蕉扇	ba	shan	palm-leaf fan
芭蕾舞	ba	wu	ballet (loanword)
芭达雅	ba	ya	variant of 帕塔亞|帕塔亚[Pa4 ta3 ya4]; Pattaya or Phatthaya city in Chon Buri province of east Thailand
芮城县	rui	xian	Ruicheng, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
芮氏规模	rui	mo	(Tw) (seismology) Richter scale
芯片组	xin	zu	chipset
花不棱登	hua	deng	gaudy; having too many jumbled colors
花冠皱盔犀鸟	hua	niao	(bird species of China) wreathed hornbill (Rhyticeros undulatus)
花前月下	hua	xia	(idiom) romantic surroundings
花团锦簇	hua	cu	brightly colored decorations (idiom); splendid
花园鞋	hua	xie	Crocs shoes (or any similar shoe)
花地玛堂区	hua	qu	Parish of Our Lady of Fatima (Macau); Freguesia de Nossa Senhora de Fátima
花垣县	hua	xian	Huayuan, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
花大姐	hua	jie	common word for ladybug, more formally 瓢蟲|瓢虫[piao2 chong2]
花天酒地	hua	di	to spend one's time in drinking and pleasure (idiom); to indulge in sensual pleasures; life of debauchery
花头鹦鹉	hua	wu	(bird species of China) blossom-headed parakeet (Psittacula roseata)
花好月圆	hua	yuan	lit. lovely flowers, round moon (idiom); fig. everything is wonderful; perfect happiness; conjugal bliss
花容月貌	hua	mao	lit. countenance of a flower, face like the moon (idiom); fig. (of a woman) beautiful
花尾榛鸡	hua	ji	(bird species of China) hazel grouse (Tetrastes bonasia)
花山区	hua	qu	Huashan, a district of Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
花岗岩	hua	yan	granite
花岗石	hua	shi	granite
花式游泳	hua	yong	(Tw) synchronized swimming
花式溜冰	hua	bing	figure skating
花式滑冰	hua	bing	(Tw) figure skating
花式足球	hua	qiu	freestyle soccer
花彩雀莺	hua	ying	(bird species of China) white-browed tit-warbler (Leptopoecile sophiae)
花心大萝卜	hua	bo	(coll.) womanizer; skirt-chaser
花心思	hua	si	to think through; to invest effort in thinking about; to consider thoroughly
花把势	hua	shi	expert flower grower
花把式	hua	shi	expert flower grower
花括号	hua	hao	braces; curly brackets { }
花拳绣腿	hua	tui	flowery of fist with fancy footwork (idiom); highly embellished and ineffectual; fancy but impractical skills
花斑癣	hua	xuan	pityriasis versicolor (aka tinea versicolor), blotchy skin condition common in tropical areas, common name 汗斑[han4 ban1]
花旗参	hua	shen	American ginseng
花旗国	hua	guo	USA (land of the stars and stripes)
花旗银行	hua	hang	Citibank; abbr. to 花旗
花无百日红	hua	hong	No flower can bloom for a hundred days.; Good times do not last long. (idiom)
花时间	hua	jian	to take up time; to spend time
花朝月夕	hua	xi	a beautiful day; cf Birthday of the Flowers on lunar 15th February and Mid-autumn Festival on lunar 15th August
花朝节	hua	jie	Birthday of the Flowers, spring festival on lunar 12th or 15th February
花木兰	hua	lan	Hua Mulan, legendary woman warrior (c. fifth century), Northern dynasties folk hero recorded in Sui and Tang literature
花果山	hua	shan	Mount Huaguo in Jiangsu, featured in 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4], tourist destination; (also the name of mountains in other parts of China)
花枝招展	hua	zhan	lit. lovely scene of blossoming plants swaying in the breeze (idiom); fig. gorgeously dressed (woman)
花架子	hua	zi	attractive appearance, but without substance
花柳病	hua	bing	sexually transmitted disease; venereal disease
花栗鼠	hua	shu	chipmunk (genus Tamias)
花样刀	hua	dao	figure skates
花样年华	hua	hua	full bloom of youth
花样游泳	hua	yong	synchronized swimming
花样滑冰	hua	bing	figure skating
花椰菜	hua	cai	cauliflower
花池子	hua	zi	flower bed
花溪区	hua	qu	Huaxi, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
花灯戏	hua	xi	opera for popular in Sichuan and Yunnan
花点子	hua	zi	trickery; scam
花生仁	hua	ren	shelled peanut; peanut kernel
花生秀	hua	xiu	(loanword) fashion show
花生米	hua	mi	shelled peanuts
花生酱	hua	jiang	peanut butter
花田鸡	hua	ji	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's rail (Coturnicops exquisitus)
花甲之年	hua	nian	(idiom) 60 years old
花粉热	hua	re	hay fever
花粉症	hua	zheng	hay fever; seasonal allergic rhinitis
花粉过敏	hua	min	hay fever
花红柳绿	hua	lv	red flowers and green willow; all the colors of spring
花脸鸭	hua	ya	(bird species of China) Baikal teal (Sibirionetta formosa)
花腹绿啄木鸟	hua	niao	(bird species of China) laced woodpecker (Picus vittatus)
花色素	hua	su	anthocyanidin (biochemistry)
花色素苷	hua	gan	anthocyanin (biochemistry)
花艺师	hua	shi	florist; floral designer
花花世界	hua	jie	the teeming world; the world of sensual pleasures
花花公主	hua	zhu	playgirl
花花公子	hua	zi	playboy
花花搭搭	hua	da	mixed; uneven in texture
花花绿绿	hua	lv	brightly colored; gaudy
花花肠子	hua	zi	(slang) a cunning plot
花莲县	hua	xian	Hualien County on the east coast of Taiwan
花莲市	hua	shi	Hualien city on the east coast of Taiwan
花落谁家	hua	jia	who will be the winner?
花蚊子	hua	zi	(coll.) Asian tiger mosquito (Aedes albopictus)
花街柳巷	hua	xiang	(idiom) red-light district
花言巧语	hua	yu	graceful words, flowery speech (idiom); elegant but insincere words; cheating wheedling; dishonest rhetoric
花貌蓬心	hua	xin	florid outside appearance, unkempt interior (idiom)
花边人物	hua	wu	person who is often the subject of gossip or sensational news; tabloid favorite; clickbait star
花边儿	hua	r	erhua variant of 花邊|花边[hua1 bian1]
花边新闻	hua	wen	media gossip; sensational news
花都区	hua	qu	Huadu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
花里胡哨	hua	shao	gaudy; flashy (but without substance)
花钱受气	hua	qi	(idiom) to have a bad experience as a customer; to encounter poor service
花钱找罪受	hua	shou	to spend money on sth that turns out to be unsatisfactory or even disastrous
花露水	hua	shui	perfumed toilet water; eau de cologne; floral water
花青素	hua	su	anthocyanidin (biochemistry)
花面狸	hua	li	masked palm civet (Paguma larvata)
花骨朵	hua	duo	(coll.) flower bud
花鼓戏	hua	xi	opera form popular along Changjiang
芳香烃	fang	ting	aromatic hydrocarbon (i.e. involving benzene ring)
芳香环	fang	huan	benzene ring (chemistry); aromatic ring
芳香疗法	fang	fa	aromatherapy
芳香醋	fang	cu	balsamic vinegar
芷江侗族自治县	zhi	xian	Zhijiang Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
芷江县	zhi	xian	see 芷江侗族自治縣|芷江侗族自治县[Zhi3 jiang1 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
芸芸众生	yun	sheng	every living being (Buddhism); the mass of common people
芸薹子	yun	zi	rapeseed; seed of the rape plant
芸薹属	yun	shu	genus Brassica (including broccoli, cabbage, rapeseed etc)
芸香属	yun	shu	(botany) genus Ruta
芸香科	yun	ke	(botany) family Rutaceae (rue family, aka citrus family)
苄星青霉素	bian	su	(pharmacology) benzathine benzylpenicillin (aka benzathine penicillin G)
苍南县	cang	xian	Cangnan, a county in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
苍头燕雀	cang	que	(bird species of China) Eurasian chaffinch; common chaffinch (Fringilla coelebs)
苍松翠柏	cang	bai	evergreen pine and cypress (idiom); steadfast nobility
苍梧县	cang	xian	Cangwu, a county in Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
苍溪县	cang	xian	Cangxi, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
苍生涂炭	cang	tan	see 生靈塗炭|生灵涂炭[sheng1 ling2 tu2 tan4]
苍白无力	cang	li	pale and feeble; powerless
苍白色	cang	se	pale; wan; sickly white
苍眉蝗莺	cang	ying	(bird species of China) Gray's grasshopper warbler (Helopsaltes fasciolatus)
苍背山雀	cang	que	(bird species of China) cinereous tit (Parus cinereus)
苍蝇不叮无缝蛋	cang	dan	lit. flies do not attack an intact egg (idiom); fig. no smoke without a fire
苍蝇座	cang	zuo	Musca (constellation)
苍蝇拍	cang	pai	flyswatter
苍蝇老虎	cang	hu	(coll.) jumping spider (which pounces on houseflies, hence the Chinese name)
苏东坡	su	po	Su Dongpo, another name for Su Shi 蘇軾|苏轼 (1037-1101), northern Song writer and calligrapher
苏仙区	su	qu	Suxian, a district of Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
苏伊士运河	su	he	Suez Canal
苏克雷	su	lei	Sucre, constitutional capital of Bolivia
苏利南	su	nan	Suriname, NE of South America (Tw)
苏占区	su	qu	Soviet-occupied area (of Eastern Europe etc)
苏台德地区	su	qu	Sudetenland
苏合香	su	xiang	snowdrop bush (Styrax officinalis); gum storax, used in TCM
苏哈托	su	tuo	Suharto (1921-2008), former Indonesian general, president of the Republic of Indonesia 1967-1998
苏姆盖特	su	te	Sumgayit, city in Azerbaijan
苏宁电器	su	qi	Suning Appliance (PRC electrical retailer)
苏家屯	su	tun	see 蘇家屯區|苏家屯区[Su1 jia1 tun2 Qu1]
苏家屯区	su	qu	Sujiatun, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
苏富比	su	bi	Sotheby's auction house
苏尼特右旗	su	qi	Sonid Right banner in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
苏尼特左旗	su	qi	Sonid Left banner in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
苏州大学	su	xue	Suzhou or Soochow University (Suzhou, PRC since 1986)
苏州市	su	shi	Suzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
苏州河	su	he	Suzhou Creek (river in Shanghai)
苏州码子	su	zi	Suzhou numerals, i.e. the ten numerals 〡,〢,〣,〤,〥,〦,〧,〨,〩,〸 nowadays mainly used in traditional trades such as Chinese medicine; also called 草碼|草码[cao3 ma3]
苏州话	su	hua	Suzhou dialect, one of the main Wu dialects 吳語|吴语[Wu2 yu3]
苏必利尔湖	su	hu	Lake Superior, one of the Great Lakes 五大湖[Wu3 da4 hu2]
苏打水	su	shui	soda water; carbonated water
苏打粉	su	fen	baking soda
苏打饼干	su	gan	soda biscuit; soda cracker; saltine
苏报案	su	an	Qing's 1903 suppression of revolutionary calls in newspaper 蘇報|苏报, leading to imprisonment of Zhang Taiyan 章太炎 and Zou Rong 鄒容|邹容
苏拉威西	su	xi	Sulawesi or Celebes (Indonesian Island)
苏易简	su	jian	Su Yijian (958-997), Northern Song writer and poet
苏曼殊	su	shu	Su Manshu (1884-1918), Chinese writer, journalist, Buddhist monk, participant in the revolutionary movement
苏枋木	su	mu	sappan wood (Caesalpinia sappan), used in Chinese medicine
苏格兰	su	lan	Scotland
苏格兰场	su	chang	Scotland Yard
苏格兰女王玛丽	su	li	Mary, Queen of Scots (1542-87)
苏格兰帽	su	mao	bonnet
苏格兰折耳猫	su	mao	Scottish Fold
苏格兰牧羊犬	su	quan	Scotch collie; rough collie
苏格拉底	su	di	Socrates (469-399 BC), Greek philosopher; José Sócrates (1957-), prime minister of Portugal (2005-2011)
苏步青	su	qing	Su Buqing (1902-2003), Chinese mathematician
苏氨酸	su	suan	threonine (Thr), an essential amino acid
苏维埃	su	ai	Soviet (council)
苏维埃俄国	su	guo	Soviet Russia (1917-1991)
苏美尔	su	er	Sumer (Šumer), one of the early civilizations of the Ancient Near East
苏联之友社	su	she	Soviet Union friendly society
苏联最高苏维埃	su	ai	Supreme Soviet
苏胺酸	su	suan	(Tw) threonine
苏花公路	su	lu	Suhua Highway, coastal road in northern Taiwan, built on the side of cliffs above the Pacific Ocean
苏莱曼	su	man	Suleiman (name); General Michel Suleiman (1948-), Lebanese military man and politician, president of Lebanon 2008-2014
苏西洛	su	luo	Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono (1949-), retired Indonesian general, president of the Republic of Indonesia 2004-2014
苏贞昌	su	chang	Su Tseng-chang (1947-), Taiwanese DPP politician, premier of the Republic of China (2019-)
苏迪曼杯	su	bei	Sudirman Cup (world badminton team competition)
苏里南	su	nan	Suriname
苏里南河	su	he	Suriname River
苏金达	su	da	Sukinda, Indian city
苏门答腊	su	la	Sumatra, one of the Indonesian islands
苏门答腊岛	su	dao	Sumatra (one of the Indonesian islands)
苏门达腊	su	la	variant of 蘇門答臘|苏门答腊[Su1 men2 da2 la4]
苏非主义	su	yi	Sufism (Islamic mystic tradition)
苏黎世	su	shi	Zurich, Switzerland
苏黎世联邦理工学院	su	yuan	Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule (ETH) Zürich, a university
苏黎士	su	shi	variant of 蘇黎世|苏黎世[Su1 li2 shi4]
苓雅区	ling	qu	Lingya district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
苗栗县	miao	xian	Miaoli county in northwest Taiwan
苗栗市	miao	shi	Miaoli city in northwest Taiwan, capital of Miaoli county
苛性钠	ke	na	sodium hydroxide NaOH; caustic soda
苛性钾	ke	jia	caustic potash; potassium hydroxide KOH
苛捐杂税	ke	shui	exorbitant taxation (idiom)
苞藏祸心	bao	xin	variant of 包藏禍心|包藏祸心[bao1 cang2 huo4 xin1]
苟且偷安	gou	an	seeking only ease and comfort (idiom); making no attempt to improve oneself; taking things easily without attending to responsibilities
苟且偷生	gou	sheng	to drift and live without purpose (idiom); to drag out an ignoble existence
苟富贵勿相忘	gou	wang	don't forget your friends when you become rich
苟延残喘	gou	chuan	(idiom) to struggle on whilst at death's door
苣荬菜	qu	cai	endive (Cichorium endivia); field sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis)
若且唯若	ruo	ruo	if and only if
若即若离	ruo	li	lit. seeming neither close nor distant (idiom); fig. to keep one's distance; (of a relationship) lukewarm
若尔盖	ruo	gai	see 若爾蓋縣|若尔盖县[Ruo4 er3 gai4 Xian4]
若尔盖县	ruo	xian	Zoigê, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
若开山脉	ruo	mai	Arakan Yoma, mountain range in western Myanmar (Burma)
若无其事	ruo	shi	(idiom) as if nothing had happened; calm and composed; nonchalant
若有所丧	ruo	sang	see 若有所失[ruo4 you3 suo3 shi1]
若有所亡	ruo	wang	see 若有所失[ruo4 you3 suo3 shi1]
若有所失	ruo	shi	as if one had lost something (idiom); to look or feel unsettled or distracted; to feel empty
若有所思	ruo	si	(idiom) looking pensive; thoughtfully
若有若无	ruo	wu	indistinct; faintly discernible
若望福音	ruo	yin	Gospel of John (used in Catholic Bible translations)
若羌县	ruo	xian	Ruoqiang, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
若隐若现	ruo	xian	(idiom) faint; indistinct
苦不唧	ku	ji	slightly bitter
苦不唧儿	ku	r	erhua variant of 苦不唧[ku3 bu5 ji1]
苦不堪言	ku	yan	to suffer unspeakable misery; indescribably painful; hellish
苦中作乐	ku	le	to find joy in sorrows (idiom); to enjoy sth in spite of one's suffering
苦口婆心	ku	xin	earnest and well-meaning advice (idiom); to persuade patiently
苦哈哈	ku	ha	to have difficulty getting by; to struggle (financially etc)
苦大仇深	ku	shen	(idiom) great bitterness and deep hatred; deeply ingrained long-standing resentment
苦尽甘来	ku	lai	bitterness finishes, sweetness begins (idiom); the hard times are over, the good times just beginning
苦差事	ku	shi	see 苦差[ku3 chai1]
苦心孤诣	ku	yi	to make painstaking efforts (idiom); after much trouble; to work hard at sth
苦心经营	ku	ying	to build up an enterprise through painstaking efforts
苦思冥想	ku	xiang	(idiom) to think deeply; to rack one's brains
苦日子	ku	zi	hard times
苦杏仁苷	ku	gan	amygdalin
苦活儿	ku	r	erhua variant of 苦活[ku3 huo2]
苦海无边回头是岸	ku	an	The sea of bitterness has no bounds, turn your head to see the shore (idiom). Only Buddhist enlightenment can allow one to shed off the abyss of worldly suffering.; Repent and ye shall be saved!
苦海茫茫	ku	mang	sea of bitterness is vast (idiom)
苦瓜脸	ku	lian	sour expression on one's face
苦肉计	ku	ji	the trick of injuring oneself to gain the enemy's confidence; CL:條|条[tiao2]
苦艾酒	ku	jiu	absinthe (distilled anise-based liquor)
苦苦哀求	ku	qiu	to entreat piteously; to implore
苦荬菜	ku	cai	Ixeris denticulata
苦菜花	ku	hua	Bitter Herbs, 1958 novel by Feng Deying 馮德英|冯德英[Feng2 De2 ying1], made into a film in 1965
苦行僧	ku	seng	ascetic monk
苦行赎罪	ku	zui	penance (to atone for a sin)
苦迭塔	ku	ta	(loanword) coup d'état
苦迭打	ku	da	(loanword) coup d'état
苦难深重	ku	zhong	deep grief; extensive sorrow
苦集灭道	ku	dao	the Four Noble Truths (Budd.), namely: all life is suffering 苦[ku3], the cause of suffering is desire 集[ji2], emancipation comes only by eliminating passions 滅|灭[mie4], the way 道[dao4] to emancipation is the Eight-fold Noble Way 八正道[ba1 zheng4 dao4]; also called 四諦|四谛[si4 di4]
苯丙氨酸	ben	suan	phenylalanine (Phe), an essential amino acid
苯丙胺	ben	an	(chemistry) amphetamine (C9H13N)
苯丙酮尿症	ben	zheng	(medicine) phenylketonuria
苯乙烯	ben	xi	(chemistry) styrene
苯并噻吩	ben	fen	benzothiophene C8H9, a heterocyclic compound (with one benzene ring and one cyclopentene ring)
苯氧基	ben	ji	phenoxy (chemistry)
苯环利定	ben	ding	phencyclidine (PCP)
苯甲酰氯	ben	lv	benzoil chloride C6H5COCl
苯甲酸	ben	suan	benzoic acid C6H5COOH
苯甲酸钠	ben	na	sodium benzoate, E211 (a food preservative)
苯甲醛	ben	quan	benzaldehyde C6H5CHO, the simplest aromatic aldehyde
苯那辛	ben	xin	benactyzine
苯酮尿症	ben	zheng	phenylketonuria (PKU)
英仙座	ying	zuo	Perseus (constellation)
英仙臂	ying	bi	Perseus spiral arm (of our galaxy)
英代尔	ying	er	(Tw) Intel
英伟达	ying	da	NVIDIA, computer graphics card company
英伦三岛	ying	dao	British Isles
英伦腔	ying	qiang	British accent
英伦风格	ying	ge	British style (fashion)
英勇牺牲	ying	sheng	to heroically sacrifice one's life
英吉利	ying	li	England (historical loan, from English)
英吉利海峡	ying	xia	English Channel
英吉沙	ying	sha	see 英吉沙縣|英吉沙县[Ying1 ji2 sha1 Xian4]
英吉沙县	ying	xian	Yengisar, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
英国人	ying	ren	British person; the British
英国工程技术学会	ying	hui	The Institution of Engineering and Technology (IET)
英国广播公司	ying	si	British Broadcasting Corporation; BBC
英国广播电台	ying	tai	British Broadcasting Corporation; BBC
英国文化协会	ying	hui	British Council
英国电讯公司	ying	si	British telecom; BT
英国皇家学会	ying	hui	Royal Society
英国石油	ying	you	British Petroleum, BP
英国石油公司	ying	si	British Petroleum, BP
英国管	ying	guan	English horn
英姿飒爽	ying	shuang	(of a person) valiant and formidable-looking; to carry oneself tall
英属哥伦比亚	ying	ya	British Columbia, Pacific province of Canada
英属维尔京群岛	ying	dao	British Virgin Islands
英山县	ying	xian	Yingshan, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
英年早逝	ying	shi	to die an untimely death (idiom); to be cut off in one's prime
英式橄榄球	ying	qiu	rugby
英德市	ying	shi	Yingde, a county-level city in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
英明果断	ying	duan	wise and resolute
英格兰	ying	lan	England
英格兰银行	ying	hang	Bank of England
英汉对译	ying	yi	English-Chinese parallel text
英特尔	ying	er	Intel (US semiconductor company)
英特网	ying	wang	see 因特網|因特网[Yin1 te4 wang3]
英联合王国	ying	guo	United Kingdom
英联邦	ying	bang	British Commonwealth of Nations
英语教学	ying	xue	English Language Teaching (ELT); studying and teaching English
英语热	ying	re	craze for learning English
英语系	ying	xi	anglophone; English department
英语角	ying	jiao	English corner; spoken English practice group
英超赛	ying	sai	England premier soccer league
英迪格酒店	ying	dian	Hotel Indigo (brand)
英雄好汉	ying	han	heroes
英雄式	ying	shi	heroic
英雄所见略同	ying	tong	lit. heroes usually agree (idiom); Great minds think alike.
英雄救美	ying	mei	heroic rescue of a damsel in distress
英雄无用武之地	ying	di	a hero with no chance of using his might; to have no opportunity to display one's talents
英雄联盟	ying	meng	League of Legends (video game)
英雄难过美人关	ying	guan	even heroes have a weakness for the charms of a beautiful woman (idiom)
英飞凌	ying	ling	Infineon (electronics company)
苹果公司	ping	si	Apple Inc.
苹果手机	ping	ji	iPhone
苹果核	ping	he	apple core
苹果梨	ping	li	Asian pear; sand pear (Pyrus pyrifolia)
苹果汁	ping	zhi	apple juice
苹果泥	ping	ni	apple sauce
苹果派	ping	pai	apple pie
苹果电脑	ping	nao	Apple computer; Mac; Macintosh
苹果蠹蛾	ping	e	codling moth (Cydia pomonella)
苹果酒	ping	jiu	cider
苹果酱	ping	jiang	apple sauce; apple jam
苹果馅饼	ping	bing	apple pie
茂南区	mao	qu	Maonan, a district of Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
茂名市	mao	shi	Maoming, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
茂宜岛	mao	dao	Maui, second-largest island of the Hawaiian archipelago
茂汶县	mao	xian	Maowen county in Sichuan, home of the Qiang people 羗族|羌族
范仲淹	fan	yan	Fan Zhongyan (989–1052), Song dynasty scholar and politician, author of On Yueyang Tower 岳陽樓記|岳阳楼记[Yue4 yang2 Lou2 Ji4]
范公偁	fan	cheng	Fan Gongcheng (12th century), Southern Song author of 過庭錄|过庭录
范德华力	fan	li	(molecular physics) van der Waals force
范德格拉夫	fan	fu	Van de Graaff (name); Robert J. Van de Graaff (1901-1967), American physicist
范德格拉夫起电机	fan	ji	Van de Graaff generator
范德瓦耳斯	fan	si	van der Waals; Johannes Diderik van der Waals (1837-1923), Dutch physicist
范德瓦耳斯力	fan	li	(molecular physics) van der Waals force
范志毅	fan	yi	Fan Zhiyi (1969-), soccer player
范思哲	fan	zhe	Versace (fashion designer)
范斯坦	fan	tan	Dianne Feinstein (1933-), US Senator from California
范氏起电机	fan	ji	Van de Graaff generator
范特西	fan	xi	fantasy (loanword)
范玮琪	fan	qi	Christine Fan (1976-), American-born Taiwanese singer and actress
范畴论	fan	lun	category theory (math.)
茄二十八星瓢虫	qie	chong	28-spotted ladybird; hadda beetle; Henosepilachna vigintioctopunctata
茄克衫	jia	shan	jacket
茄子河	qie	he	see 茄子河區|茄子河区[Qie2 zi5 he2 Qu1]
茄子河区	qie	qu	Qiezihe, a district of Qitaihe City 七臺河市|七台河市[Qi1 tai2 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
茄红素	qie	su	Lycopene
茅以升	mao	sheng	Mao Yisheng (1896-1989), Chinese structural engineer and social activist
茅利塔尼亚	mao	ya	Mauritania (Tw)
茅台酒	mao	jiu	maotai (a strong spirit produced in Guizhou); CL:杯[bei1],瓶[ping2]
茅坑里点灯	mao	deng	(slang) (fig.) to court death (derived from 找死[zhao3 si3] via its near homophone 照屎[zhao4 shi3])
茅塞顿开	mao	kai	murky darkness suddenly opens (idiom); a sudden flash of insight and all is clear
茅屋顶	mao	ding	thatched roof
茅盾文学奖	mao	jiang	Mao Dun Literature Prize, PRC prize for novel writing, awarded since 1982
茅箭区	mao	qu	Maojian, a district of Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
茉莉花	mo	hua	jasmine
茉莉花茶	mo	cha	jasmine tea
茉莉菊酯	mo	zhi	jasmolin
茌平区	chi	qu	Chiping, a district of Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
茕茕孑立	qiong	li	to stand all alone
茨万吉拉伊	ci	yi	Morgan Tsvangirai (1952-2018), Zimbabwean politician
茨欣瓦利	ci	li	Tskhinvali, capital of South Osetia
茫崖市	mang	shi	Mangnai, a county-level city in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
茫然失措	mang	cuo	at a loss (idiom)
茭白笋	jiao	sun	edible stem of Manchurian wild rice 菰[gu1], aka water bamboo
茱丽叶	zhu	ye	Juliet or Juliette (name)
茱莉亚	zhu	ya	Julia (name)
茱莉娅	zhu	ya	Julia (name)
茱莉雅	zhu	ya	(name) Julia
茴香籽	hui	zi	cumin; fennel seed
茴香豆	hui	dou	star anise-flavored fava beans (snack from Shaoxing, Zhejiang province)
茶余酒后	cha	hou	see 茶餘飯後|茶余饭后[cha2 yu2 fan4 hou4]
茶余饭后	cha	hou	leisure time (over a cup of tea, after a meal etc)
茶余饭饱	cha	bao	see 茶餘飯後|茶余饭后[cha2 yu2 fan4 hou4]
茶叶末儿	cha	r	tea leaves powder
茶叶蛋	cha	dan	tea egg (egg boiled with flavorings which may include black tea)
茶碗蒸	cha	zheng	chawanmushi, Japanese savory egg custard dish that is steamed and served in a small bowl
茶缸子	cha	zi	mug; tea mug
茶胸斑啄木鸟	cha	niao	(bird species of China) fulvous-breasted woodpecker (Dendrocopos macei)
茶胺酸	cha	suan	(Tw) (biochemistry) theanine
茶藨子	cha	zi	currant; gooseberry
茶褐色	cha	se	dark brown; tawny
茶话会	cha	hui	tea party
茶陵县	cha	xian	Chaling, a county in Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
茶饭不思	cha	si	no thought for tea or rice (idiom); melancholic and suffering; to have no appetite
茶饭无心	cha	xin	see 茶飯不思|茶饭不思[cha2 fan4 bu4 si1]
茶馆儿	cha	r	erhua form of 茶館|茶馆[cha2 guan3]
茶马互市	cha	shi	old tea-horse market between Tibet, China, Southeast Asia and India, formalized as a state enterprise under the Song dynasty
茶马古道	cha	dao	old tea-horse road or southern Silk Road, dating back to 6th century, from Tibet and Sichuan through Yunnan and Southeast Asia, reaching to Bhutan, Sikkim, India and beyond
茹古涵今	ru	jin	to take in (old and new experiences and sorrows)
茹志鹃	ru	juan	Ru Zhijuan (1925-1998), female novelist and politician
茹毛饮血	ru	xue	devour raw meat and fowl (of savages)
茹苦含辛	ru	xin	see 含辛茹苦[han2 xin1 ru2 ku3]
茹荤饮酒	ru	jiu	to eat meat and drink wine
荆州区	jing	qu	Jingzhou, a district of Jingzhou City 荊州市|荆州市[Jing1 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
荆州市	jing	shi	Jingzhou, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
荆棘载途	jing	tu	lit. a path covered in brambles; a course of action beset by difficulties (idiom)
荆榛满目	jing	mu	thorns and brambles as far as eye can see (idiom); beset by troubles
荆门市	jing	shi	Jingmen, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
草原巨蜥	cao	xi	Savannah monitor (Varanus exanthematicus)
草原灰伯劳	cao	lao	(bird species of China) steppe grey shrike (Lanius pallidirostris)
草原百灵	cao	ling	(bird species of China) calandra lark (Melanocorypha calandra)
草原雕	cao	diao	(bird species of China) steppe eagle (Aquila nipalensis)
草原鹞	cao	yao	(bird species of China) pallid harrier (Circus macrourus)
草台班子	cao	zi	small, poorly-equipped theatrical troupe that tours small towns and villages; (fig.) makeshift band of individuals; rough and ready outfit
草地鹨	cao	liu	(bird species of China) meadow pipit (Anthus pratensis)
草坪机	cao	ji	lawn mower
草垫子	cao	zi	straw mattress; palliasse
草大青	cao	qing	Isatis tinctoria (indigo woad plant)
草字头儿	cao	r	grass radical 艹
草履虫	cao	chong	paramecium
草木灰	cao	hui	plant ash
草木皆兵	cao	bing	lit. every tree or bush an enemy soldier (idiom); fig. to panic and treat everyone as an enemy; to feel beleaguered
草木鸟兽	cao	shou	flora and fauna
草本植物	cao	wu	herbaceous plant
草根网民	cao	min	grassroots netizens
草泥马	cao	ma	see 肏你媽|肏你妈[cao4 ni3 ma1] (near homophone of 肏你媽|肏你妈[cao4 ni3 ma1] used to avoid Internet censorship)
草满囹圄	cao	yu	lit. jails overgrown with grass (idiom); fig. peaceful society
草爬子	cao	zi	tick (zoology)
草率收兵	cao	bing	to work vaguely then retreat (idiom); sloppy and half-hearted; half-baked
草珊瑚	cao	hu	Sarcandra glabra (botany)
草石蚕	cao	can	Chinese artichoke; Stachys sieboldii
草绿篱莺	cao	ying	(bird species of China) eastern olivaceous warbler (Iduna pallida)
草船借箭	cao	jian	lit. using straw boats to borrow arrows (idiom, from 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4]); fig. to use others' manpower and resources for one's own ends
草芥人命	cao	ming	see 草菅人命[cao3 jian1 ren2 ming4]
草草了事	cao	shi	to rush through the work; to get through a thing carelessly
草草收兵	cao	bing	to work vaguely then retreat (idiom); sloppy and half-hearted; half-baked
草草收场	cao	chang	to rush to conclude a matter; to end up abruptly
草莓族	cao	zu	pampered young people unaccustomed to hardship (Tw)
草菅人命	cao	ming	to have disregard for human life (idiom)
草蜻蛉	cao	ling	green lacewing
草食动物	cao	wu	herbivore
荐头店	jian	dian	job agency (arch.); employment shop
荒唐无稽	huang	ji	preposterous
荒山野岭	huang	ling	wild, mountainous country
荒怪不经	huang	jing	absurd; unthinkable
荒无人烟	huang	yan	desolate and uninhabited (idiom)
荒淫无耻	huang	chi	shameless
荒漠伯劳	huang	lao	(bird species of China) isabelline shrike (Lanius isabellinus)
荒漠化	huang	hua	desertification
荒烟蔓草	huang	cao	lit. abandoned by men and choked with weeds; desolate (idiom)
荒诞不经	huang	jing	absurd; preposterous; ridiculous
荒诞无稽	huang	ji	ridiculous; unbelievable; absurd
荒谬无稽	huang	ji	completely ridiculous and unfounded
荒谬绝伦	huang	lun	absolutely ridiculous (idiom); preposterous; the height of folly
荔城区	li	qu	Licheng, a district of Putian City 莆田市[Pu2 tian2 Shi4], Fujian
荔枝核	li	he	seeds of litchi or lychee (in TCM)
荔波县	li	xian	Libo, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
荔浦市	li	shi	Lipu, a county-level city in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
荔湾区	li	qu	Liwan, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
荚膜组织胞浆菌	jia	jun	Histoplasma capsulatum
荜门圭窦	bi	dou	wicker door, hole window (idiom); fig. wretched hovel; living in poverty
荡妇羞辱	dang	ru	to slut-shame
荡气回肠	dang	chang	heart-rending (drama, music, poem etc); deeply moving
荡然无存	dang	cun	to obliterate completely; to vanish from the face of the earth
荡秋千	dang	qian	to swing (on a swing)
荣光颂	rong	song	Gloria (in Catholic mass)
荣华富贵	rong	gui	glory, splendor, wealth and rank (idiom); high position and great wealth
荣宗耀祖	rong	zu	see 光宗耀祖[guang1 zong1 yao4 zu3]
荣归主	rong	zhu	Gloria (section of Catholic mass)
荣归故里	rong	li	to return home with honor
荣成市	rong	shi	Rongcheng, a county-level city in Weihai City 威海市[Wei1 hai3 Shi4], Shandong
荣成湾	rong	wan	Roncheng bay near Weihai 威海市 on north coast of Shandong
荣昌区	rong	qu	Rongchang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
荣毅仁	rong	ren	Rong Yiren (1916-2005), PRC Vice President from 1993-1998, played an important role in opening Chinese economy to Western investors
荣禄大夫	rong	fu	a rank in government service
荣誉军人	rong	ren	disabled soldier; serviceman wounded in action
荣誉博士	rong	shi	honorary doctorate; Doctor Honoris Causae
荣誉国民	rong	min	(Tw) retired soldier; veteran
荣誉学位	rong	wei	honorary degree; (U.K. etc) honours degree
荣誉教授	rong	shou	emeritus professor
荣辱与共	rong	gong	(of friends or partners) to share both the honor and the disgrace (idiom)
荣辱观	rong	guan	precepts regarding what is honorable and what is shameful (in particular, refers to the Socialist Concepts on Honors and Disgraces, PRC official moral principles promulgated from 2006); abbr. for 社會主義榮辱觀|社会主义荣辱观; also known as the Eight Honors and Eight Shames 八榮八恥|八荣八耻[Ba1 Rong2 Ba1 Chi3]
荤段子	hun	zi	dirty joke
荤笑话	hun	hua	dirty jokes; jokes of a visceral nature
荥经县	ying	xian	Yingjing, a county in Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
荥阳市	xing	shi	Xingyang, a county-level city in Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
荧光屏	ying	ping	fluorescent screen; screen (of a TV or monitor etc)
荧光幕	ying	mu	screen (of a TV, computer etc) (Tw)
荧光棒	ying	bang	glow stick
荧光灯	ying	deng	a fluorescent light; a fluorescent lamp
荧光笔	ying	bi	highlighter pen; fluorescent marker
荧惑星	ying	xing	Mars in traditional Chinese astronomy
荨麻疹	xun	zhen	urticaria; nettle rash; hives
药代动力学	yao	xue	pharmacokinetics
药到病除	yao	chu	lit. the disease is cured the moment the medicine is taken (idiom); fig. (of a medical treatment) to give instant results; (of a solution or method) highly effective
药剂士	yao	shi	druggist; pharmacist
药剂师	yao	shi	pharmacist
药动学	yao	xue	pharmacokinetics
药妆店	yao	dian	drugstore; pharmacy (one that offers health, beauty, and wellness products in addition to medicines – a type of store popular in Japan, Taiwan and Hong Kong)
药师佛	yao	fo	Medicine Buddha (Sanskrit: Bhaisajyaguru)
药师如来	yao	lai	Medicine Buddha (Sanskrit: Bhaisajyaguru)
药师经	yao	jing	Healing sutra; Bhaisajyaguru sutra
药方儿	yao	r	erhua variant of 藥方|药方[yao4 fang1]
药水儿	yao	r	erhua variant of 藥水|药水[yao4 shui3]
药物代谢动力学	yao	xue	pharmacokinetics
药物学	yao	xue	pharmacology
药物学家	yao	jia	pharmacologist
药理学	yao	xue	pharmacology
药用价值	yao	zhi	medicinal value
药石无灵	yao	ling	(idiom) (of a sick person or disease) to be incurable
药蜀葵	yao	kui	marsh mallow (Althaea officinalis)
药补不如食补	yao	bu	the benefits of medicine are not as great as those of good nutrition
药食同源	yao	yuan	lit. food and medicine come from the same source (idiom); fig. there is no clear-cut distinction between food and medicine
荷兰式拍卖	he	mai	Dutch auction; descending-price auction
荷兰猪	he	zhu	guinea pig
荷兰王国	he	guo	Koninkrijk der Nederlanden; Kingdom of the Netherlands
荷兰皇家航空	he	kong	KLM Royal Dutch Airlines
荷兰盾	he	dun	Dutch gulden
荷兰石竹	he	zhu	grenadine; carnation; clove pink
荷兰芹	he	qin	parsley
荷兰语	he	yu	Dutch (language)
荷兰豆	he	dou	snow pea
荷包蛋	he	dan	poached egg; egg fried on both sides
荷塘区	he	qu	Hetang, a district of Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
荷尔蒙	he	meng	(loanword) hormone
荷尼阿拉	he	la	Honiara, capital of Solomon Islands (Tw)
荷属圣马丁	he	ding	Sint Maarten, island country in the Caribbean
荷属安的列斯	he	si	Netherlands Antilles
荷巴特	he	te	Hobart, capital of Tasmania, Australia
荷枪实弹	he	dan	(idiom) armed; carrying a loaded firearm
荷泽寺	he	si	Heze temple in Fuzhou, Fujian
荷荷巴	he	ba	jojoba
荼毒生灵	tu	ling	to torment the people (idiom)
莅临指导	li	dao	(of a notable person etc) to honor with one's presence and offer guidance (idiom)
莅事者	li	zhe	local administrative official (in imperial China)
莆田市	pu	shi	Putian, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
莎士比亚	sha	ya	Shakespeare (name); William Shakespeare (1564-1616), poet and playwright
莎拉波娃	sha	wa	Sharapova (Russian female tennis star)
莎莎舞	sha	wu	salsa (dance)
莎莎酱	sha	jiang	(loanword) salsa (sauce)
莎车县	sha	xian	Yarkant, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
莒南县	ju	xian	Junan, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
莘庄镇	xin	zhen	Xinzhuang, town in Minhang District 閔行區|闵行区[Min3 hang2 Qu1], Shanghai
莘莘学子	shen	zi	a great number of students (idiom)
莙荙菜	jun	cai	chard (Beta vulgaris)
莜麦菜	you	cai	variant of 油麥菜|油麦菜[you2 mai4 cai4]
莞尔一笑	wan	xiao	(literary) to smile
莫三比克	mo	ke	Mozambique (Tw)
莫不是	mo	shi	probably; perhaps; could it be that...?
莫不然	mo	ran	equally true for (all the rest); the same thing applies (for everyone)
莫不逾侈	mo	chi	there is no-one who is not extravagant
莫代尔	mo	er	(textiles) modal fiber
莫伊谢耶夫	mo	fu	Moiseyev (name); Igor Aleksandrovich Moiseyev (1906-2007), choreographer of folk dance and founder of Moiseyev dance company
莫伯日	mo	ri	Maubeuge (French city)
莫克姆湾	mo	wan	Morecambe Bay
莫利森	mo	sen	Morrison (name)
莫卧儿王朝	mo	chao	Mughal or Mogul Dynasty (1526-1858)
莫可名状	mo	zhuang	indescribable (joy); inexpressible (pleasure)
莫可奈何	mo	he	see 無可奈何|无可奈何[wu2 ke3 nai4 he2]
莫可指数	mo	shu	countless; innumerable
莫吉托	mo	tuo	Mojito
莫名其妙	mo	miao	(idiom) baffling; bizarre; without rhyme or reason; inexplicable
莫哈韦沙漠	mo	mo	Mojave Desert, southwestern USA
莫塔马湾	mo	wan	Gulf of Martaban, Myanmar (Burma)
莫尔兹比港	mo	gang	Port Moresby, capital of Papua New Guinea
莫尔斯	mo	si	Morse (name)
莫尔斯电码	mo	ma	Morse code
莫扎特	mo	te	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791), Austrian composer
莫扎里拉	mo	la	(loanword) mozzarella
莫拉莱斯	mo	si	Morales
莫斯特	mo	te	Mousterian (a Palaeolithic culture)
莫斯科	mo	ke	Moscow, capital of Russia
莫明其妙	mo	miao	variant of 莫名其妙[mo4 ming2 qi2 miao4]
莫札特	mo	te	Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart (1756-1791), Austrian composer (Tw)
莫杰斯特	mo	te	Modest (name); Modeste (name)
莫桑比克	mo	ke	Mozambique
莫泊桑	mo	sang	Guy de Maupassant (1850-1893), French novelist and short story writer
莫洛尼	mo	ni	Moroni, capital of Comoros (Tw)
莫测高深	mo	shen	enigmatic; beyond one's depth; unfathomable
莫罕达斯	mo	si	Mohandas (name)
莫罗尼	mo	ni	Moroni, capital of Comoros
莫衷一是	mo	shi	unable to reach a decision (idiom); cannot agree on the right choice; no unanimous decision; still a matter of discussion
莫达非尼	mo	ni	modafinil (loanword)
莫过于	mo	yu	nothing can surpass
莫逆之交	mo	jiao	intimate friendship; bosom buddies
莫里哀	mo	ai	Molière (1622-1673), French playwright and actor, master of comedy
莫霍洛维奇	mo	qi	Andrija Mohorovichich or Mohorovičić (1857-1936), Croatian geologist and seismologist who discovered the Mohorovichich discontinuity or Moho
莫霍洛维奇不连续面	mo	mian	Moho (aka Mohorovičić discontinuity, the lower boundary of the earth's lithosphere); abbr. to 莫霍面[Mo4 huo4 mian4]
莫霍面	mo	mian	Moho (aka Mohorovičić discontinuity, the lower boundary of the earth's lithosphere)
莫须有	mo	you	groundless; baseless
莫高窟	mo	ku	Mogao caves in Dunhuang 敦煌, Gansu
莱伊尔	lai	er	Lyell (name); Sir Charles Lyell (1797-1875), Scottish geologist
莱佛士	lai	shi	surname Raffles; Stamford Raffles (1781–1826), British statesman and founder of the city of Singapore
莱克多巴胺	lai	an	(organic chemistry) (loanword) ractopamine
莱姆病	lai	bing	Lyme disease
莱姆酒	lai	jiu	see 朗姆酒[lang3 mu3 jiu3]
莱山区	lai	qu	Laishan, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
莱州市	lai	shi	Laizhou, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
莱布尼兹	lai	zi	Leibnitz (name); Gottfriend Wilhelm von Leibniz (1646-1716), German mathematician and philosopher, co-inventor of the calculus
莱布尼茨	lai	ci	Leibniz (name); Gottfriend Wilhelm von Leibniz (1646-1716), German mathematician and philosopher, co-inventor of the calculus
莱德杯	lai	bei	Ryder Cup (US and Europe golf team competition)
莱斯大学	lai	xue	Rice University (Houston, Texas)
莱斯沃斯岛	lai	dao	Lesbos (Greek island in the Aegean Sea 愛琴海|爱琴海[Ai4 qin2 Hai3])
莱斯特	lai	te	Lester or Leicester (name); Leicester, English city in East Midlands
莱斯特郡	lai	jun	Leicestershire, English county
莱旺厄尔	lai	er	Levanger (city in Trøndelag, Norway)
莱昂纳多	lai	duo	Leonardo (name)
莱比锡	lai	xi	Leipzig, city in the state of Saxony, Germany
莱温斯基	lai	ji	Monica Lewinsky (1973-), former White House intern
莱特币	lai	bi	Litecoin (cryptocurrency)
莱索托	lai	tuo	Lesotho
莱芜区	lai	qu	Laiwu, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
莱茵河	lai	he	Rhine River
莱菔子	lai	zi	radish seed (used in TCM to treat indigestion)
莱西市	lai	shi	Laixi, a county-level city in Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
莱赛尔	lai	er	(textiles) (loanword) lyocell
莱里达	lai	da	Lérida or Lleida, Spain
莱阳市	lai	shi	Laiyang, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
莱顿大学	lai	xue	University of Leiden
莱麦丹	lai	dan	Ramadan (loanword)
莱齐耶三世	lai	shi	Letsie III of Lesotho
莲池区	lian	qu	Lianchi, a district of Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
莲湖区	lian	qu	Lianhu, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
莲花县	lian	xian	Lianhua, a county in Pingxiang City 萍鄉市|萍乡市[Ping2 xiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
莲花白	lian	bai	(dialect) cabbage
莲花落	lian	lao	genre of folk song with accompaniment of bamboo clappers
莲蓉包	lian	bao	lotus seed bun
莲蓬头	lian	tou	showerhead
莲都区	lian	qu	Liandu, a district of Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
莳萝籽	shi	zi	dill seed
获利回吐	huo	tu	(finance) profit-taking
获嘉县	huo	xian	Huojia, a county in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
获奖者	huo	zhe	prizewinner
获得性	huo	xing	acquired (i.e. not inborn)
获得感	huo	gan	sense of gain
获得者	huo	zhe	recipient
获益者	huo	zhe	beneficiary
获胜者	huo	zhe	victor
莺歌燕舞	ying	wu	the warbler sings and the swallow dances; prosperity abounds (idiom)
莼羹鲈脍	chun	kuai	(idiom) the dishes from one's hometown; (idiom) homesickness
莼鲈之思	chun	si	(idiom) homesickness
菅直人	jian	ren	KAN Naoto (1946-), Japanese Democratic Party politician, prime minister 2010-2011
菊花茶	ju	cha	chrysanthemum tea
菌胶团	jun	tuan	zoogloea
菌陈蒿	jun	hao	tarragon
菏泽市	he	shi	Heze, prefecture-level city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
菜包子	cai	zi	steamed bun stuffed with vegetables; (fig.) useless person; a good-for-nothing
菜单条	cai	tiao	menu bar (of a computer application)
菜单栏	cai	lan	menu bar (computing)
菜墩子	cai	zi	chopping block
菜头粿	cai	guo	stir-fried radish cake; chai tow kway
菜市仔名	cai	ming	(Tw) popular given name (one that will turn many heads if you shout it at a marketplace) (from Taiwanese 菜市仔名, Tai-lo pr. [tshài-tshī-á-miâ], where 菜市仔 means "marketplace")
菜市场	cai	chang	food market
菜市场名	cai	ming	(Tw) popular given name (one that will turn many heads if you shout it at a marketplace)
菜篮子	cai	zi	vegetable or food basket; (fig.) food supply
菜籽油	cai	you	rapeseed oil; canola oil
菟丝子	tu	zi	dodder (Cuscuta sinensis, a parasitic vine with seeds used in medicine)
菠萝包	bo	bao	pineapple bun, a sweet bun popular esp. in Hong Kong (typically does not contain pineapple – the name comes from the rough top crust which resembles pineapple skin)
菠萝啤	bo	pi	pineapple-flavored soda
菠萝油	bo	you	pineapple bun 菠蘿包|菠萝包[bo1 luo2 bao1] with a slice of butter inserted
菠萝蜜	bo	mi	jackfruit
菩提树	pu	shu	peepul (Ficus religiosa); bodhi tree; sacred fig
菩提达摩	pu	mo	Bodhidharma
菩提道场	pu	chang	Bodhimanda (place of enlightenment associated with a Bodhisattva)
菱形六面体	ling	ti	(math.) rhombohedron
菱花镜	ling	jing	antique bronze mirror with flower petal edging, most commonly from the Tang dynasty
菱铁矿	ling	kuang	siderite
菱镁矿	ling	kuang	magnesite; magnesium ore
菲亚特	fei	te	Fiat
菲利普	fei	pu	(name) Philip
菲力克斯	fei	si	Felix (name)
菲力牛排	fei	pai	fillet steak
菲尔兹	fei	zi	Fields (name)
菲尔兹奖	fei	jiang	Fields Medal (prestigious international award in mathematics)
菲尔普斯	fei	si	Phelps (name); Michael Phelps (1985-), US swimmer and multiple Olympic gold medallist
菲尔特	fei	te	Fürth (city in Germany)
菲尼克斯	fei	si	Phoenix, capital of Arizona; also 鳳凰城|凤凰城[Feng4 huang2 cheng2]
菲律宾	fei	bin	the Philippines
菲律宾人	fei	ren	Filipino
菲律宾大学	fei	xue	University of the Philippines
菲律宾语	fei	yu	Tagalog (language)
菲律宾鹃鸠	fei	jiu	(bird species of China) Philippine cuckoo-dove (Macropygia tenuirostris)
菲德尔	fei	er	Fidel (name)
菲涅耳透镜	fei	jing	Fresnel lens
菲舍尔	fei	er	(name) Fisher or Fischer
菲茨杰拉德	fei	de	Fitzgerald (name)
萌渚岭	meng	ling	Mengzhu mountain range between south Hunan and Guangxi
萌萌哒	meng	da	(Internet slang) adorable; cute
萍乡市	ping	shi	Pingxiang, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
萍水相逢	ping	feng	strangers coming together by chance (idiom)
萍蓬草	ping	cao	spatterdock (Nuphar pumilum), a type of lily
萎靡不振	wei	zhen	dispirited and listless (idiom); downcast
萝北县	luo	xian	Luobei, a county in Hegang City 鶴崗市|鹤岗市[He4 gang3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
萝卜丝饼	luo	bing	shredded daikon pie
萝卜快了不洗泥	luo	ni	when radishes are selling fast, one doesn't take the time to wash the soil off them (idiom); fig. when business is booming, merchants tend to offer goods of inferior quality
萝卜白菜各有所爱	luo	ai	(saying) one man's meat is another man's poison; to each his own
萝卜糕	luo	gao	radish cake (a type of dim sum, commonly called "turnip cake")
萝卜青菜各有所爱	luo	ai	see 蘿蔔白菜，各有所愛|萝卜白菜，各有所爱[luo2 bo5 bai2 cai4 , ge4 you3 suo3 ai4]
萝莉控	luo	kong	lolicon or rorikon (Japanese loanword); manga or anime genre depicting young girls in an erotic manner
萤光幕	ying	mu	see 螢幕|萤幕[ying2 mu4]
萤光棒	ying	bang	Taiwan variant of 熒光棒|荧光棒[ying2 guang1 bang4]
萤光灯	ying	deng	Taiwan variant of 熒光燈|荧光灯[ying2 guang1 deng1]
萤光绿	ying	lv	bright green; chartreuse
萤幕保护程式	ying	shi	screensaver (Tw)
萤幕保护装置	ying	zhi	screensaver (Tw)
萤火虫	ying	chong	firefly; glowworm; lightning bug
营业员	ying	yuan	clerk; shop assistant; CL:個|个[ge4]
营业收入	ying	ru	revenue
营业时间	ying	jian	business hours; opening hours; office hours
营业税	ying	shui	tax on turnover; sales tax
营业额	ying	e	sum or volume of business; turnover
营养不良	ying	liang	malnutrition; undernourishment; deficiency disease
营养品	ying	pin	nourishment; nutrient
营养学	ying	xue	nutriology
营养师	ying	shi	nutritionist; dietitian
营养液	ying	ye	nutrient fluid
营养物质	ying	zhi	nutrient
营养素	ying	su	nutrient
营口市	ying	shi	Yingkou, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
营山县	ying	xian	Yingshan, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
营私舞弊	ying	bi	see 徇私舞弊[xun4 si1 wu3 bi4]
营运资金	ying	jin	(accounting) working capital
营运长	ying	zhang	chief operating officer (COO) (Tw)
营造商	ying	shang	builder; contractor
营销号	ying	hao	(Internet slang) clickbait account; content farm account
萧一山	xiao	shan	Xiao Yishan (1902-1978), Modern historian of the Qing dynasty
萧万长	xiao	chang	Vincent C. Siew (1939-), Taiwanese diplomat and Kuomintang politician, prime minister 1997-2000, vice president 2008-2012
萧伯纳	xiao	na	George Bernard Shaw (1856-1950), Irish dramatist and writer
萧子显	xiao	xian	Xiao Zixian (487-537), writer and historian of Liang of Southern Dynasties, compiler of History of Qi of the Southern dynasties 南齊書|南齐书[Nan2 Qi2 shu1]
萧山区	xiao	qu	Xiaoshan, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
萧规曹随	xiao	sui	lit. Xiao's 蕭何|萧何[Xiao1 He2] governance followed by Cao 曹參|曹参[Cao2 Can1] (idiom); fig. to strictly adhere to the policies of the predecessor; to follow precedent
萨丁尼亚岛	sa	dao	Sardinia
萨克拉门托	sa	tuo	Sacramento
萨克斯	sa	si	sax; saxophone
萨克斯管	sa	guan	sax; saxophone
萨克斯风	sa	feng	(loanword) saxophone
萨克森	sa	sen	see 薩克森州|萨克森州[Sa4 ke4 sen1 Zhou1]
萨克森州	sa	zhou	Saxony, a federal state in eastern Germany, capital Dresden 德累斯頓|德累斯顿[De2 lei2 si1 dun4]
萨克洛夫	sa	fu	Sakharov (name); Andrei Sakharov (1921-1989), Soviet nuclear physicist and dissident human rights activist
萨克洛夫奖	sa	jiang	Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought, awarded by the European Parliament annually since 1988
萨克管	sa	guan	sax; saxophone
萨克逊	sa	xun	Saxon
萨兰斯克	sa	ke	Saransk, capital of the Republic of Mordovia, Russia
萨其马	sa	ma	see 沙琪瑪|沙琪玛[sha1 qi2 ma3]
萨卡什维利	sa	li	Mikheil Saakashvili (1967-), Georgian politician, president of Georgia 2004-2013
萨哈洛夫	sa	fu	Sakharov (Russian name)
萨哈罗夫	sa	fu	Andrei Sakharov (1921-1989), Russian nuclear scientist and dissident human rights activist
萨哈罗夫人权奖	sa	jiang	the EU Sakharov Human Rights Prize
萨哈罗夫奖	sa	jiang	Sakharov Prize for Freedom of Thought (awarded by EU since 1988)
萨哈诺夫	sa	fu	(Andrei) Sakharov
萨哈诺夫人权奖	sa	jiang	the EU Sakharov prize for human rights
萨嘎县	sa	xian	Saga, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
萨噶达娃节	sa	jie	Tibetan festival on 15th April marking Sakyamuni's birthday
萨尔图	sa	tu	see 薩爾圖區|萨尔图区[Sa4 er3 tu2 Qu1]
萨尔图区	sa	qu	Sartu, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
萨尔州	sa	zhou	Saarland, state of Germany, capital Saarbrücken 薩爾布呂肯|萨尔布吕肯[Sa4 er3 bu4 lu:3 ken3]
萨尔布吕肯	sa	ken	Saarbrücken, capital of Saarland, Germany
萨尔普斯堡	sa	bao	Sarpsborg (city in Østfold, Norway)
萨尔浒之战	sa	zhan	Battle of Sarhu in 1619, in which the Manchus under Nurhaci 努爾哈赤|努尔哈赤[Nu3 er3 ha1 chi4] crushed four Ming armies
萨尔温江	sa	jiang	Salween river, flowing from Tibet into Myanmar
萨尔瓦多	sa	duo	El Salvador
萨尔科奇	sa	qi	Sarkozy (name); Nicolas Sarkozy (1955-), president of France 2007-2012
萨尔科齐	sa	qi	Nicolas Sarkozy (1955-), French UMP politician, President 2007-2012; also written 薩科齊|萨科齐[Sa4 ke1 qi2]
萨尔茨堡	sa	bao	Salzburg
萨尔达	sa	da	Zelda (in Legend of Zelda video game) (Tw, HK, Macau)
萨巴德罗	sa	luo	Zapatero (name); José Luis Zapatero (1960-), Spanish PSOE politician, prime minister of Spain 2004-2011
萨彦岭	sa	ling	Sayan Mountains, on the border of Russia and Mongolia
萨德尔	sa	er	Sadr (name); Moqtada Sadr (c. 1973-), Iraqi Shia clergyman and militia leader
萨德尔市	sa	shi	Sadr city (Shia township in East Bagdad)
萨拉丁	sa	ding	Saladin (c. 1138-1193)
萨拉戈萨	sa	sa	Zaragoza, Spain
萨拉曼卡	sa	ka	Salamanca, Spain
萨拉森帝国	sa	guo	Saracen Empire (medieval European name for Arab empire)
萨拉热窝	sa	wo	Sarajevo, capital of Bosnia and Herzegovina
萨拉米	sa	mi	(loanword) salami
萨摩亚	sa	ya	Samoa
萨摩耶	sa	ye	Samoyed (dog)
萨摩耶犬	sa	quan	Samoyed (dog)
萨摩麟	sa	lin	Samotherium (early giraffe)
萨斯卡通	sa	tong	Saskatoon city, Saskatchewan, Canada
萨斯喀彻温	sa	wen	Saskatchewan province, Canada
萨斯病	sa	bing	SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome)
萨格勒布	sa	bu	Zagreb, capital of Croatia
萨桑王朝	sa	chao	Sassanid Empire of Persia (c. 2nd-7th century AD)
萨满教	sa	jiao	Shamanism
萨珊王朝	sa	chao	Sassanid Empire of Persia (c. 2nd-7th century AD)
萨瓦河	sa	he	Sava River, flowing through Southeast Europe
萨科齐	sa	qi	Nicolas Sarkozy (1955-), French UMP politician, President 2007-2012
萨米人	sa	ren	the Sami people, indigenous people in northern Scandinavia
萨赫蛋糕	sa	gao	Sachertorte, Viennese chocolate cake
萨达姆	sa	mu	Saddam Hussein (1937–2006), president of Iraq 1979–2003
萨达特	sa	te	Anwar Al Sadat
萨迦县	sa	xian	Sa'gya, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
萨迪克	sa	ke	Sadiq or Sadik (name)
萨里郡	sa	jun	Surrey (county in south England)
萨非王朝	sa	chao	Persian Safavid Dynasty 1501-1722
萨马兰奇	sa	qi	Juan Antonio Samaranch (1920-2010), Spanish Olympic official, president of International Olympic Committee 1980-2001
萨默塞特郡	sa	jun	Somerset County in southwest England
落于下风	luo	feng	to be at a disadvantage
落井下石	luo	shi	to throw stones at sb who has fallen down a well (idiom); to hit a person when he's down
落入法网	luo	wang	to fall into the net of justice (idiom); finally arrested
落叶乔木	luo	mu	deciduous tree
落叶剂	luo	ji	defoliant
落叶层	luo	ceng	leaf litter
落叶归根	luo	gen	Getting Home, 2007 PRC comedy-drama film directed by 張揚|张扬[Zhang1 Yang2], starring 趙本山|赵本山[Zhao4 Ben3 shan1]
落叶松	luo	song	larch tree (Pinus larix); deciduous pine tree
落叶植物	luo	wu	deciduous plant; deciduous vegetation
落地扇	luo	shan	pedestal fan; stand fan
落地灯	luo	deng	floor lamp
落地生根	luo	gen	air plant (Bryophyllum pinnatum); to put down roots
落地窗	luo	chuang	floor-to-ceiling window; French window
落地签	luo	qian	landing visa; visa on arrival
落地鼓	luo	gu	floor tom (drum kit component)
落埋怨	lao	yuan	to get blamed
落基山	luo	shan	Rocky Mountains in West US and Canada
落拓不羁	luo	ji	(idiom) unconventional; uninhibited; free-spirited
落水狗上岸	luo	an	like a dog who fell in the river and climbs out—shaking all over
落水管	luo	guan	drainpipe; water spout
落汤鸡	luo	ji	a person who looks drenched and bedraggled; like a drowned rat; deep distress
落腮胡子	luo	zi	variant of 絡腮鬍子|络腮胡子[luo4 sai1 hu2 zi5]
落花有意流水无情	luo	qing	lit. the falling flowers are yearning for love, but the heartless brook ripples on (idiom); fig. one side is willing, yet the other one remains indifferent (usually of unrequited love)
落花流水	luo	shui	to be in a sorry state; to be utterly defeated
落花生	luo	sheng	peanut (the plant)
落草为寇	luo	kou	(idiom) to take to the woods to become an outlaw
落荒而逃	luo	tao	to flee in defeat; to bolt
落落大方	luo	fang	(of one's conduct, speech etc) natural and unrestrained
落落寡交	luo	jiao	aloof and as a result friendless (idiom)
落落寡合	luo	he	aloof; standoffish; unsociable
落落寡欢	luo	huan	melancholy; unhappy
落落难合	luo	he	a loner; someone who does not easily get along with others
落袋为安	luo	an	to take profits and lock in one's gains
落马洲	luo	zhou	Lok Ma Chau (place in Hong Kong)
葇荑花序	rou	xu	catkin (botany)
著书立说	zhu	shuo	to write a book advancing one's theory (idiom)
著作权	zhu	quan	copyright
著作等身	zhu	shen	(idiom) (of an author) prolific
著称于世	zhu	shi	world-renowned
葛优躺	ge	tang	see 北京癱|北京瘫[Bei3 jing1 tan1]
葛兰素史克	ge	ke	GlaxoSmithKline, British pharmaceutical company
葛法翁	ge	weng	Capernaum (biblical town on the Sea of Galilee)
葛洲坝	ge	ba	name of a place, Gezhouba Dam on the Changjiang River, in Sichuan
葛瑞格尔	ge	er	Gregoire (name)
葛缕子	ge	zi	caraway; Persian cumin (Carum carvi)
葛莱美奖	ge	jiang	(Tw) Grammy Award (US music industry award)
葛逻禄	ge	lu	Qarluq or Karluk nomadic tribe, a Turkic ethnic minority in ancient times
葡糖胺	pu	an	glucosamine; abbr. for 葡萄糖胺
葡萄园	pu	yuan	vineyard
葡萄干	pu	gan	raisin; dried grape
葡萄干儿	pu	r	raisin
葡萄弹	pu	dan	grapeshot
葡萄柚	pu	you	grapefruit
葡萄树	pu	shu	grapevine
葡萄汁	pu	zhi	grape juice
葡萄牙	pu	ya	Portugal
葡萄牙人	pu	ren	Portuguese (person)
葡萄牙文	pu	wen	Portuguese (language)
葡萄牙语	pu	yu	Portuguese (language)
葡萄球菌	pu	jun	staphylococcus
葡萄球菌肠毒素	pu	su	staphylococcal enterotoxin
葡萄糖	pu	tang	glucose C6H12O6
葡萄糖胺	pu	an	glucosamine (C6H13NO5); also written 氨基葡萄糖
葡萄紫	pu	zi	grayish purple color
葡萄胸鸭	pu	ya	(bird species of China) American wigeon (Anas americana)
葡萄藤	pu	teng	grapevine (botany)
葡萄语	pu	yu	Portuguese (language)
葡萄酒	pu	jiu	(grape) wine
董事会	dong	hui	board of directors
董事长	dong	zhang	chairman of the board of directors
董仲舒	dong	shu	Dong Zhongshu (179-104 BC), philosopher influential in establishing Confucianism as the established system of values of former Han dynasty
董建华	dong	hua	Tung Chee-hwa (1937-), Hong Kong entrepreneur and politician, chief executive 1997-2005
董必武	dong	wu	Dong Biwu (1886-1975), one of the founders of the Chinese communist party
董阳孜	dong	zi	Grace Tong (Tong Yangtze) (1942-), Taiwanese calligrapher
葫芦丝	hu	si	hulusi, aka cucurbit flute (a kind of free reed wind instrument)
葫芦岛	hu	dao	see 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4]
葫芦岛市	hu	shi	Huludao, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
葫芦巴	hu	ba	fenugreek
葫芦里卖的是什么药	hu	yao	what has (he) got up (his) sleeve?; what's going on?
葬玉埋香	zang	xiang	lit. burying jade and interring incense (idiom); funeral for a beautiful person
葬身鱼腹	zang	fu	lit. to be buried in the bellies of fish (idiom); fig. to drown
葱抓饼	cong	bing	flaky scallion pancake (made with dough, not batter)
葱油饼	cong	bing	scallion pancake
葵花子	kui	zi	sunflower seeds
蒂森克虏伯	di	bo	ThyssenKrupp
蒂芙尼	di	ni	Tiffany & Co. (US luxury jewelry retailer)
蒋中正	jiang	zheng	Chiang Chung-cheng, adopted name of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2]
蒋介石	jiang	shi	Chiang Kai-shek (1887-1975), military leader, head of the Nationalist government in China 1928-1949 and the government in exile on Taiwan 1950-1975
蒋士铨	jiang	quan	Jiang Shiquan (1725-1784), Qing poet, one of Three great poets of the Qianlong era 乾嘉三大家
蒋桂战争	jiang	zheng	confrontation of 1929 between Chiang Kaishek and the Guangxi warlord faction
蒋纬国	jiang	guo	Chiang Wei-kuo (1916-1997), adopted son of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石
蒋经国	jiang	guo	Chiang Ching-kuo (1910-1988), son of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石, Guomindang politician, president of ROC 1978-1988
蒋雯丽	jiang	li	Jiang Wenli (1969-), award-winning PRC film actress
蒙代尔	meng	er	Walter Mondale (1928-), US democratic politician, US vice-president 1977-1981 and ambassador to Japan 1993-1996
蒙兀国	meng	guo	Khamag Mongol, a 12th century Mongolic tribal confederation
蒙古人	meng	ren	Mongol
蒙古人民共和国	meng	guo	People's Republic of Mongolia (from 1924)
蒙古包	meng	bao	yurt
蒙古国	meng	guo	Mongolia
蒙古大夫	meng	fu	(coll.) quack (doctor); charlatan
蒙古族	meng	zu	Mongol ethnic group
蒙古沙雀	meng	que	(bird species of China) Mongolian finch (Bucanetes mongolicus)
蒙古沙鸻	meng	heng	(bird species of China) Siberian sand plover (Anarhynchus mongolus)
蒙古百灵	meng	ling	(bird species of China) Mongolian lark (Melanocorypha mongolica)
蒙古语	meng	yu	Mongolian (language)
蒙古里	meng	li	(archaic) Mongol
蒙哥马利	meng	li	Bernard Montgomery (Montie) (1887–1976), Second World War British field marshal
蒙嘉慧	meng	hui	Yoyo Mung (1975-), Hong Kong actress
蒙在鼓里	meng	li	variant of 蒙在鼓裡|蒙在鼓里[meng2 zai4 gu3 li3]
蒙地卡罗	meng	luo	Monte-Carlo (Monaco) (Tw)
蒙城县	meng	xian	Mengcheng, a county in Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
蒙大拿	meng	na	Montana, US state
蒙太奇	meng	qi	(loanword) (film) montage
蒙头转向	meng	xiang	to lose one's bearings; utterly confused
蒙娜丽莎	meng	sha	Mona Lisa
蒙山县	meng	xian	Mengshan, a county in Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
蒙巴萨	meng	sa	Mombasa (city in Kenya)
蒙巴顿	meng	dun	Mountbatten (name, Anglicization of German Battenberg); Lord Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma (1900-1979), British commander in Southeast Asia during WWII, presided over the partition of India in 1947, murdered by the IRA.
蒙帕纳斯	meng	si	Montparnasse (southeast Paris, 14ème arrondissement)
蒙彼利埃	meng	ai	Montpellier (French town)
蒙得维的亚	meng	ya	Montevideo, capital of Uruguay
蒙昧无知	meng	zhi	benighted (idiom); ignorant
蒙松雨	meng	yu	(dialect) drizzle; light rain
蒙汗药	meng	yao	knockout drops
蒙混过关	meng	guan	to get away with it; to slip through; to bluff one's way out
蒙特内哥罗	meng	luo	Montenegro (Tw)
蒙特利尔	meng	er	Montreal, city in Quebec, Canada
蒙特卡洛	meng	luo	Monte-Carlo (Monaco)
蒙特卡洛法	meng	fa	Monte Carlo method (math.)
蒙特卡罗方法	meng	fa	Monte Carlo method (math.)
蒙特塞拉特	meng	te	Montserrat (Caribbean island, a British Overseas Territory)
蒙特娄	meng	lou	Montreal, city in Quebec, Canada (Tw)
蒙特维多	meng	duo	Montevideo, capital of Uruguay (Tw)
蒙特雷	meng	lei	Monterey
蒙罗维亚	meng	ya	Monrovia, capital of Liberia
蒙自市	meng	shi	Mengzi, a county-level city in Honghe Hani and Yi Autonomous Prefecture 紅河哈尼族彝族自治州|红河哈尼族彝族自治州[Hong2 he2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
蒙蒙亮	meng	liang	dawn; the first glimmer of light
蒙蒙黑	meng	hei	dusk
蒙阴县	meng	xian	Mengyin, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
蒜茸钳	suan	qian	garlic press
蒭藁增二	chu	er	same as 米拉, Mira (red giant star, Omicron Ceti), variable star with period of 330 days
蒲公英	pu	ying	dandelion (Taraxacum mongolicum)
蒲城县	pu	xian	Pucheng, a county in Weinan City 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
蒲式耳	pu	er	bushel (eight gallons)
蒲松龄	pu	ling	Pu Songling (1640-1715), author of 聊齋志異|聊斋志异[Liao2 zhai1 Zhi4 yi4]
蒲江县	pu	xian	Pujiang, a county in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
蒲甘王朝	pu	chao	Bagan (Pagan) Dynasty of Myanmar (Burma), 1044-1287
蒲福风级	pu	ji	Beaufort scale for wind speed
蒲草箱	pu	xiang	rush basket
蒲隆地	pu	di	Burundi (Tw)
蒸发热	zheng	re	latent heat of evaporation
蒸发空调	zheng	tiao	evaporative air conditioner; evaporative cooler
蒸气重整	zheng	zheng	steam reforming (chemistry)
蒸汽压路机	zheng	ji	steamroller
蒸汽挂烫机	zheng	ji	garment steamer
蒸汽机	zheng	ji	steam engine
蒸汽机车	zheng	che	steam locomotive
蒸湘区	zheng	qu	Zhengxiang, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
蒸粗麦粉	zheng	fen	couscous
蒸腾作用	zheng	yong	transpiration
蒸蒸日上	zheng	shang	becoming more prosperous with each passing day
蒸馏器	zheng	qi	still (i.e. distilling apparatus)
蒸馏水	zheng	shui	distilled water
蒸馏酒	zheng	jiu	distilled liquor; spirits
蒹葭倚玉	jian	yu	see 蒹葭倚玉樹|蒹葭倚玉树[jian1 jia1 yi3 yu4 shu4]
蒹葭倚玉树	jian	shu	lit. reeds leaning on a jade tree (idiom); fig. the lowly associating with the noble; the weak seeking help from the strong
蒹葭玉树	jian	shu	see 蒹葭倚玉樹|蒹葭倚玉树[jian1 jia1 yi3 yu4 shu4]
蓄势待发	xu	fa	to wait for action after having accumulated power, energy etc
蓄水池	xu	chi	water reservoir
蓄电池	xu	chi	secondary (rechargeable) battery; accumulator; storage cell
蓄须明志	xu	zhi	to grow a beard as a symbol of one's determination (as Mei Lanfang 梅蘭芳|梅兰芳[Mei2 Lan2 fang1] growing a beard and refusing to perform for the Japanese)
蓑羽鹤	suo	he	(bird species of China) demoiselle crane (Grus virgo)
蓖麻毒素	bi	su	ricin (biochemistry)
蓖麻毒蛋白	bi	bai	ricin (biochemistry)
蓖麻籽	bi	zi	castor beans
蓝丁胶	lan	jiao	Blu-tack (brand)
蓝光光盘	lan	pan	Blu-ray disk, Sony high definition DVD disk
蓝八色鸫	lan	dong	(bird species of China) blue pitta (Hydrornis cyaneus)
蓝喉仙鹟	lan	weng	(bird species of China) blue-throated blue flycatcher (Cyornis rubeculoides)
蓝喉太阳鸟	lan	niao	(bird species of China) Mrs. Gould's sunbird (Aethopyga gouldiae)
蓝喉拟啄木鸟	lan	niao	(bird species of China) blue-throated barbet (Psilopogon asiaticus)
蓝喉歌鸲	lan	qu	(bird species of China) bluethroat (Luscinia svecica)
蓝喉蜂虎	lan	hu	(bird species of China) blue-throated bee-eater (Merops viridis)
蓝大翅鸲	lan	qu	(bird species of China) grandala (Grandala coelicolor)
蓝头红尾鸲	lan	qu	(bird species of China) blue-capped redstart (Phoenicurus coeruleocephala)
蓝宝石	lan	shi	sapphire
蓝屏死机	lan	ji	(computing) (of an operating system) to crash and display the "blue screen of death"
蓝山县	lan	xian	Lanshan, a county in Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
蓝巨星	lan	xing	blue giant star
蓝枕八色鸫	lan	dong	(bird species of China) blue-naped pitta (Hydrornis nipalensis)
蓝枕花蜜鸟	lan	niao	(bird species of China) purple-naped spiderhunter (Kurochkinegramma hypogrammicum)
蓝歌鸲	lan	qu	(bird species of China) Siberian blue robin (Larvivora cyane)
蓝毗尼	lan	ni	Lumbini, Nepal, birthplace of Siddhartha Gautama 釋迦牟尼|释迦牟尼[Shi4 jia1 mou2 ni2] founder of Buddhism (also written 嵐毘尼|岚毗尼[Lan2 pi2 ni2], 臘伐尼|腊伐尼[La4 fa2 ni2], 林微尼[Lin2 wei1 ni2])
蓝田县	lan	xian	Lantian, a county in Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
蓝田种玉	lan	yu	a marriage made in heaven (idiom)
蓝皮书	lan	shu	an official report (e.g. governmental)
蓝眉林鸲	lan	qu	(bird species of China) Himalayan bluetail (Tarsiger rufilatus)
蓝短翅鸫	lan	dong	(bird species of China) white-browed shortwing (Brachypteryx montana)
蓝矶鸫	lan	dong	(bird species of China) blue rock thrush (Monticola solitarius)
蓝筹股	lan	gu	blue chip stock
蓝精灵	lan	ling	the Smurfs
蓝纹奶酪	lan	lao	blue cheese
蓝细菌	lan	jun	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
蓝绿菌	lan	jun	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
蓝绿藻	lan	zao	Cyanobacteria (blue-green algae)
蓝绿鹊	lan	que	(bird species of China) common green magpie (Cissa chinensis)
蓝翅八色鸟	lan	niao	(bird species of China) blue-winged pitta (Pitta moluccensis)
蓝翅叶鹎	lan	bei	(bird species of China) Javan leafbird (Chloropsis cochinchinensis)
蓝翅噪鹛	lan	mei	(bird species of China) blue-winged laughingthrush (Trochalopteron squamatum)
蓝翅希鹛	lan	mei	(bird species of China) blue-winged minla (Actinodura cyanouroptera)
蓝翡翠	lan	cui	(bird species of China) black-capped kingfisher (Halcyon pileata)
蓝耳拟啄木鸟	lan	niao	(bird species of China) blue-eared barbet (Psilopogon cyanotis)
蓝耳病	lan	bing	porcine reproductive and respiratory syndrome (PRRS); blue-ear swine fever
蓝耳翠鸟	lan	niao	(bird species of China) blue-eared kingfisher (Alcedo meninting)
蓝肤木	lan	mu	sumac (Rhus coriaria), east Mediterranean deciduous shrub with fruit used as spice; also called tanner's sumach or vinegar tree
蓝背八色鸫	lan	dong	(bird species of China) blue-rumped pitta (Hydrornis soror)
蓝胸佛法僧	lan	seng	(bird species of China) European roller (Coracias garrulus)
蓝胸秧鸡	lan	ji	(bird species of China) slaty-breasted rail (Gallirallus striatus)
蓝胸鹑	lan	chun	(bird species of China) king quail; blue-breasted quail (Synoicus chinensis)
蓝脸鲣鸟	lan	niao	(bird species of China) masked booby (Sula dactylatra)
蓝腰短尾鹦鹉	lan	wu	(bird species of China) blue-rumped parrot (Psittinus cyanurus)
蓝舌病	lan	bing	blue-tongue (viral disease of livestock)
蓝色剂	lan	ji	Agent Blue
蓝色妖姬	lan	ji	blue rose
蓝菌门	lan	men	Cyanobacteria (phylum of blue-green algae)
蓝藻门	lan	men	Cyanobacteria (phylum of blue-green algae)
蓝金黄	lan	huang	blue, gold and yellow (BGY), the three methods of manipulation: information control (via media and the Internet), money (bribery etc) and sexual temptation (honey trap etc)
蓝须夜蜂虎	lan	hu	(bird species of China) blue-bearded bee-eater (Nyctyornis athertoni)
蓝颜知己	lan	ji	close male friend; confidant
蓝额红尾鸲	lan	qu	(bird species of China) blue-fronted redstart (Phoenicurus frontalis)
蓝额长脚地鸲	lan	qu	(bird species of China) blue-fronted robin (Cinclidium frontale)
蓝饰带花	lan	hua	blue lace flower (Trachymene caerulea)
蓝马鸡	lan	ji	(bird species of China) blue eared pheasant (Crossoptilon auritum)
蓦地里	mo	li	suddenly; unexpectedly
蓬头垢面	peng	mian	messy hair and dirty face; bad appearance
蓬头散发	peng	fa	disheveled
蓬头跣足	peng	zu	matted hair and bare feet; unkempt
蓬安县	peng	xian	Peng'an, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
蓬户瓮牖	peng	you	thatched house, broken urn windows (idiom); poor person's house; humble home
蓬江区	peng	qu	Pengjiang, a district of Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
蓬溪县	peng	xian	Pengxi, a county in Suining City 遂寧市|遂宁市[Sui4 ning2 Shi4], Sichuan
蓬筚生辉	peng	hui	variant of 蓬蓽生輝|蓬荜生辉[peng2 bi4 sheng1 hui1]
蓬荜生辉	peng	hui	(idiom) (humble expression) your presence brings light to my humble dwelling
蓬莱仙境	peng	jing	Penglai, island of immortals; fairyland
蓬莱区	peng	qu	Penglai, a district of Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
蓬莱米	peng	mi	Taiwan round-grained glutinous rice (Japonica rice)
蓬门筚户	peng	hu	overgrown gate, wicker windows (idiom); poor person's house; humble home
蓬门荜户	peng	hu	overgrown gate, wicker windows (idiom); poor person's house; humble home
蓬首垢面	peng	mian	see 蓬頭垢面|蓬头垢面[peng2 tou2 gou4 mian4]
蔓生植物	man	wu	creeper; climbing plant; twiner
蔓越橘	man	ju	cranberry
蔓越莓	man	mei	cranberry
蔗糖素	zhe	su	sucralose
蔚为壮观	wei	guan	see 蔚為大觀|蔚为大观[wei4 wei2 da4 guan1]
蔚为大观	wei	guan	to afford a magnificent sight (idiom); enchanting
蔚然成风	wei	feng	to have become common practice (idiom); to become a general trend
蔡东藩	cai	fan	Cai Dongfan (1877-1945), historian and historical novelist
蔡依林	cai	lin	Jolin Tsai (1980-), Taiwanese singer
蔡元培	cai	pei	Cai Yuanpei (1868-1940), educationist and politician, president of Peking University 1917-27
蔡司公司	cai	si	Zeiss Company (Carl Zeiss AG, optical and opto-electronic industries. hq in Oberkochen, Germany)
蔡国强	cai	qiang	Cai Guoqiang (1957-), contemporary Chinese artist working with firework displays and light shows
蔡志忠	cai	zhong	Tsai Chih Chung (1948-), famous Taiwanese cartoonist specializing in retelling the Chinese classics
蔡李佛	cai	fo	Choy Li Fut (Chinese martial art)
蔡甸区	cai	qu	Caidian, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
蔡英文	cai	wen	Tsai Ing-wen (1956–), Taiwanese DPP politician, president of the Republic of China 2016–2024
蔫儿坏	nian	huai	apt to do sth nasty or devious in secret
蔫呼呼	nian	hu	weak and indecisive
蔫土匪	nian	fei	scoundrel with an honest demeanor
蔫头耷脑	nian	nao	(idiom) (coll.) (of a flower etc) droopy; withered; (of a person) listless; dispirited
蔫耷耷	nian	da	listless; droopy
蔷薇十字团	qiang	tuan	the Rosicrucian order (masonic order)
蔷薇花蕾	qiang	lei	rosebud
蔺相如	lin	ru	Ling Xiangru (dates unknown, 3rd century BC), famous statesman of Zhao 趙國|赵国
蔽身处	bi	chu	shelter
蕉城区	jiao	qu	Jiaocheng, a district of Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
蕉岭县	jiao	xian	Jiaoling, a county in Meizhou City 梅州市[Mei2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
蕲春县	qi	xian	Qichun, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
蕴藏量	yun	liang	reserves; amount still in store
蕾丝花边	lei	bian	lace border (loanword)
蕾丝边	lei	bian	(slang) (loanword) lesbian
蕾哈娜	lei	na	Rihanna (1988-), Barbadian pop singer
薄一波	bo	bo	Bo Yibo (1908-2007), ranking PRC politician, served on State Council from 1950s to 1980s as colleague of Deng Xiaoping
薄伽丘	bo	qiu	Giovanni Boccaccio (1313-1375), Italian writer, poet, and humanist, author of Decameron 十日談|十日谈[Shi2 ri4 Tan2]
薄养厚葬	bo	zang	to neglect one's parents but give them a rich funeral; hypocrisy in arranging a lavish funeral after treating one's parents meanly
薄利多销	bo	xiao	small profit but rapid turnover
薄弱环节	bo	jie	weak link; loophole
薄油层	bo	ceng	oil sheet
薄烤饼	bo	bing	pancake
薄熙来	bo	lai	Bo Xilai (1949-), PRC politician, appointed to the Politburo in 2007, sentenced in 2013 to life imprisonment for corruption and misconduct
薄瑞光	bo	guang	Raymond Burghard (1945-), US diplomat and ambassador to Vietnam 2001-2004, chairman of American Institute in Taiwan from 2006
薄胎瓷器	bo	qi	eggshell china
薄荷油	bo	you	peppermint oil
薄荷糖	bo	tang	mint (confectionery)
薄荷脑	bo	nao	menthol
薄荷酮	bo	tong	menthone (chemistry)
薄荷醇	bo	chun	(chemistry) menthol
薄透镜	bao	jing	thin lens (optics)
薅羊毛	hao	mao	to seek out discount vouchers, cashback offers etc and use them in making purchases
薇薇安	wei	an	(name) Vivian; Vivien; Vivienne
薛仁贵	xue	gui	Xue Rengui (614-683) great Tang dynasty general
薛城区	xue	qu	Xuecheng, a district of Zaozhuang City 棗莊市|枣庄市[Zao3 zhuang1 Shi4], Shandong
薛定谔	xue	e	Erwin Schrödinger (1887-1961), Austrian physicist
薛定谔方程	xue	cheng	Schrödinger's wave equation
薛宝钗	xue	chai	Xue Baochai, female character in Dream of Red Mansions, married to Jia Baoyu 賈寶玉|贾宝玉
薛居正	xue	zheng	Xue Juzheng (912-981), Song historian and compiler of History of the Five Dynasties between Tang and Song 舊五代史|旧五代史
薛福成	xue	cheng	Xue Fucheng (1838-1894), Qing official and progressive political theorist
薪尽火传	xin	chuan	see 薪火相傳|薪火相传[xin1 huo3 xiang1 chuan2]
薪火相传	xin	chuan	lit. the flame of a burning piece of firewood passes on to the rest (idiom); fig. (of knowledge, skill etc) to be passed on from teachers to students, one generation to another
薰莸不同器	xun	qi	lit. fragrant herbs and foul herbs do not go into the same vessel (idiom); bad people and good people do not mix
薰衣草	xun	cao	lavender (genus Lavandula)
薹草属	tai	shu	genus Carex
藁城区	gao	qu	Gaocheng, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
藏书票	cang	piao	bookplate
藏传佛教	zang	jiao	Tibetan Buddhism
藏器待时	cang	shi	to conceal one's abilities and wait (idiom); to lie low and await the opportune moment
藏垢纳污	cang	wu	see 藏污納垢|藏污纳垢[cang2 wu1 na4 gou4]
藏头露尾	cang	wei	to hide the head and show the tail (idiom); to give a partial account; half-truths
藏宝图	cang	tu	treasure map
藏宝箱	cang	xiang	treasure chest
藏族人	zang	ren	Tibetan (person)
藏毛性疾病	cang	bing	pilonidal disease
藏污纳垢	cang	gou	to hide dirt, to conceal corruption (idiom); to shelter evil people and accept wrongdoing; aiding and abetting wicked deeds
藏猫儿	cang	r	hide and seek
藏猫猫	cang	mao	hide and seek; peek-a-boo
藏红花	zang	hua	saffron (Crocus sativus)
藏经洞	cang	dong	the Library Cave, a sealed cave (Cave 17) in the Mogao Caves 莫高窟[Mo4 gao1 ku1], where thousands of manuscripts were discovered in 1900
藏羚羊	zang	yang	Tibetan antelope or Chiru (Pantholops hodgsonii)
藏茴香果	zang	guo	caraway
藏藏掖掖	cang	ye	to conceal
藏身之处	cang	chu	hiding place; hideout
藏身处	cang	chu	hiding place; hideout; shelter
藏镜人	cang	ren	man behind the mirror; puppet master; string puller
藏雪雀	zang	que	(bird species of China) Tibetan snowfinch (Montifringilla henrici)
藏雪鸡	zang	ji	(bird species of China) Tibetan snowcock (Tetraogallus tibetanus)
藏青果	zang	guo	chebulic myrobalan (Terminalia chebula)
藏青色	zang	se	navy blue
藏马鸡	zang	ji	(bird species of China) Tibetan eared pheasant (Crossoptilon harmani)
藏黄雀	zang	que	(bird species of China) Tibetan serin (Spinus thibetanus)
藏龙卧虎	cang	hu	lit. hidden dragon, crouching tiger (idiom); fig. talented individuals in hiding; concealed talent
藐视一切	miao	qie	to look down upon everything
藕断丝连	ou	lian	lit. lotus roots may break, but the fiber remains joined (idiom); lovers part, but still long for one another
藤本植物	teng	wu	vine plant
藤藤菜	teng	cai	(dialect) see 空心菜[kong1 xin1 cai4]
蘅塘退士	heng	shi	assumed name of Sun Zhu 孫誅|孙诛[Sun1 Zhu1] (1711-1778), poet and compiler of Three Hundred Tang Poems 唐詩三百首|唐诗三百首[Tang2 shi1 San1 bai3 Shou3]
蘑菇云	mo	yun	mushroom cloud
蘑菇汤	mo	tang	mushroom soup
虎不拉	hu	la	(dialect) shrike; Taiwan pr. [hu3 bu5 la1]
虎丘区	hu	qu	Huqiu, a district of Suzhou City 蘇州市|苏州市[Su1 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
虎列拉	hu	la	(loanword) cholera
虎口余生	hu	sheng	lit. to escape from the tiger's mouth (idiom); fig. to narrowly escape death
虎咬猪	hu	zhu	see 刈包[gua4 bao1]
虎头海雕	hu	diao	(bird species of China) Steller's sea eagle (Haliaeetus pelagicus)
虎头牌	hu	pai	tiger-head plaque (made of wood and mounted on the front of a yamen 衙門|衙门[ya2 men5] during the Qing dynasty as a symbol of authority)
虎头蛇尾	hu	wei	lit. tiger's head, snake's tail (idiom); fig. a strong start but weak finish
虎头蜂	hu	feng	hornet
虎字头	hu	tou	name of "tiger" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 141); see also 虍[hu1]
虎尾兰	hu	lan	snake plant aka mother-in-law's tongue (Dracaena trifasciata)
虎尾春冰	hu	bing	lit. like stepping on a tiger's tail or spring ice (idiom); fig. extremely dangerous situation
虎斑地鸫	hu	dong	(bird species of China) scaly thrush (Zoothera dauma)
虎斑蝶	hu	die	common tiger butterfly (Danaus genutia)
虎斑鹦鹉	hu	wu	budgerigar (genus Psittacella, several species); budgie
虎林市	hu	shi	Hulin, a county-level city in Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
虎毒不食子	hu	zi	a tiger, though cruel, will not devour its cubs (idiom); even wild beasts look after their young
虎烈拉	hu	la	(loanword) cholera
虎爪派	hu	pai	Fu Jow Pai (Tiger Claw Style), a southern Chinese martial art emphasizing tiger-claw techniques
虎父无犬子	hu	zi	lit. father a lion, son cannot be a dog (honorific); With a distinguished father such as you, the son is sure to do well.; like father, like son
虎狮兽	hu	shou	tigon or tiglon, hybrid cross between a male tiger and a lioness
虎皮鹦鹉	hu	wu	budgerigar
虎纹伯劳	hu	lao	(bird species of China) tiger shrike (Lanius tigrinus)
虎背熊腰	hu	yao	back of a tiger and waist of a bear; tough and stocky build
虎视眈眈	hu	dan	(lit.) to fix one's eyes on sth like a tiger watching its prey (idiom); (fig.) to eye covetously
虎起脸	hu	lian	to take a fierce look
虎跳峡	hu	xia	Tiger Leaping Gorge on the Jinsha River 金沙江[Jin1 sha1 Jiang1] in Yunnan
虎踞龙盘	hu	pan	lit. where tigers crouch and dragons coil (idiom); fig. forbidding terrain
虎踞龙蟠	hu	pan	lit. where tigers crouch and dragons coil (idiom); fig. forbidding terrain
虎蹲炮	hu	pao	a short-barreled mortar; an ancient catapult
虐待狂	nve	kuang	sadism; sadist
虑病症	lv	zheng	hypochondria
虔信主义	qian	yi	fideism; fundamentalism
虔信派	qian	pai	pious sect; fundamentalist faction
虔信者	qian	zhe	pious believer; devotee; fundamentalist
虚不受补	xu	bu	a person who is in poor health cannot handle sth so strong as a tonic
虚与委蛇	xu	yi	(idiom) to feign civility
虚伪类真	xu	zhen	false but apparently real
虚位以待	xu	dai	to reserve a seat; to leave a position vacant
虚头巴脑	xu	nao	(coll.) all show and no substance
虚宫格	xu	ge	four-square box in which one practices writing a Chinese character
虚己以听	xu	ting	to listen to the ideas of others with an open mind (idiom)
虚席以待	xu	dai	to reserve a seat for sb (idiom)
虚应了事	xu	shi	see 虛應故事|虚应故事[xu1 ying4 gu4 shi4]
虚应故事	xu	shi	to go through the motions
虚度光阴	xu	yin	to waste time on worthless activities
虚张声势	xu	shi	(idiom) to bluff; to bluster; to make an empty show of strength
虚心好学	xu	xue	modest and studious (idiom)
虚怀若谷	xu	gu	receptive as an echoing canyon (idiom); modest and open-minded
虚情假意	xu	yi	false friendship; hypocritical show of affection
虚惊一场	xu	chang	(idiom) a false alarm; a scare that turns out to be nothing
虚拟专用网络	xu	luo	virtual private network (VPN)
虚拟实境	xu	jing	virtual reality (Tw)
虚拟机	xu	ji	virtual machine
虚拟环境	xu	jing	virtual environment
虚拟现实	xu	shi	virtual reality
虚拟现实置标语言	xu	yan	virtual reality markup language (VRML) (computing)
虚拟私人网络	xu	luo	virtual private network (VPN)
虚拟网络	xu	luo	virtual network
虚拟语气	xu	qi	subjunctive mood (grammar)
虚拟连接	xu	jie	virtual connection
虚文浮礼	xu	li	empty formality
虚无主义	xu	yi	nihilism
虚无假设	xu	she	null hypothesis (statistics)
虚无缥缈	xu	miao	illusory; imaginary; fanciful
虚有其表	xu	biao	looks impressive but is worthless (idiom); not as good as it looks; a reputation with no substance
虚构小说	xu	shuo	fiction
虚电路	xu	lu	virtual circuit; VC
虚空藏菩萨	xu	sa	Akasagarbha Bodhisattva
虚粒子	xu	zi	virtual particle
虚缺号	xu	hao	white square character ( □ ), used to represent a missing ideograph
虚荣心	xu	xin	vanity
虚虚实实	xu	shi	hard to tell if it's real or sham
虚飘飘	xu	piao	light and airy; floating
虞世南	yu	nan	Yu Shinan (558-638), politician of Sui and early Tang periods, poet and calligrapher, one of Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang 唐初四大家[Tang2 chu1 Si4 Da4 jia1]
虞城县	yu	xian	Yucheng, a county in Shangqiu City 商丘市[Shang1 qiu1 Shi4], Henan
虞应龙	yu	long	Yu Yinglong, Yuan dynasty scholar, collaborated on the geographical encyclopedia Dayuan Dayi Tongzhi 大元大一統誌|大元大一统志
虫媒病毒	chong	du	arbovirus
虫子牙	chong	ya	see 蟲牙|虫牙[chong2 ya2]
虫白蜡	chong	la	white wax from Chinese white wax bug (Ericerus pela)
虱多不痒	shi	yang	(lit.) when covered with lice, one doesn't feel the itching anymore (idiom); (fig.) to be past worrying (about sth)
虱目鱼	shi	yu	milkfish (Chanos chanos)
虹口区	hong	qu	Hongkou district, central Shanghai
虹吸管	hong	guan	siphon
虹彩病毒	hong	du	iridovirus
虹桥机场	hong	chang	Hongqiao Airport (Shanghai)
虽死犹生	sui	sheng	lit. although dead, as if still alive (idiom); still with us in spirit
虽死犹荣	sui	rong	lit. although dead, also honored; died a glorious death
虽败犹荣	sui	rong	honorable even in defeat (idiom)
虽迟但到	sui	dao	(slang) slow to arrive but eventually shows up
虾兵蟹将	xia	jiang	shrimp soldiers and crab generals (in mythology or popular fiction, the army of the Dragon King of the Eastern Sea); useless troops (idiom)
虾夷葱	xia	cong	chive
虾爬子	xia	zi	mantis shrimp
虾红素	xia	su	astaxanthin
虾虎鱼	xia	yu	goby (flat fish, Gobiidae)
虾虎鱼科	xia	ke	Gobiidae (suborder of perch)
虾青素	xia	su	astaxanthin
蚁斗蜗争	yi	zheng	lit. the ant fights, the snail contends (idiom); fig. petty squabbling
蚂蚁上树	ma	shu	"ants climbing a tree", a Sichuan dish made with cellophane noodles 粉絲|粉丝[fen3 si1] and ground meat (so called because the particles of meat clinging to the noodles look like ants on the twigs of a tree); (sex position) man standing, woman clinging to his upper body; (erotic massage) full-body licking
蚂蚁包	ma	bao	ant bite (swollen, itchy bump); anthill; ant mound; (metonym) ant nest
蚂蚁窝	ma	wo	ant nest
蚂蚁腰	ma	yao	(coll.) tiny waist
蚂蚁金服	ma	fu	Ant Financial Services Group, an affiliate company of Alibaba 阿里巴巴[A1 li3 ba1 ba1]
蚂蚱也是肉	ma	rou	lit. even a locust provides some nourishment (idiom); fig. it's better than nothing
蚊子再小也是肉	wen	rou	lit. even a mosquito, though tiny, provides some nourishment (idiom); fig. it's better than nothing
蚊子包	wen	bao	mosquito bite
蚊子馆	wen	guan	(jocular) public building that has been lying idle (and is thus ideal for housing mosquitos) (Tw)
蚌埠市	beng	shi	Bengbu, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
蚌山区	beng	qu	Bengshan, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
蚍蜉撼大树	pi	shu	lit. an ant trying to shake a big tree (idiom); fig. to overrate one's own strength; also written 蚍蜉撼樹|蚍蜉撼树[pi2 fu2 han4 shu4]
蚍蜉撼树	pi	shu	(lit.) an ant trying to shake a tree (idiom); (fig.) to overrate oneself; to overestimate one's capabilities
蚕宝宝	can	bao	silkworm
蚕茧纸	can	zhi	paper made from silkworm cocoons
蚕豆症	can	zheng	G6PD deficiency (glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase deficiency)
蚕食鲸吞	can	tun	(lit.) to nibble like a silkworm or swallow like a whale (idiom); (fig.) to seize (territory etc) incrementally or wholesale
蚰蜒路	you	lu	lit. centipede's path; fig. narrow winding road
蚵仔煎	e	jian	(Tw) oyster omelette (from Taiwanese, Tai-lo pr. [ô-á-tsian])
蛇夫座	she	zuo	Ophiuchus (constellation)
蛇岛蝮	she	fu	Snake island viper (Gloydius shedaoensis), feeding on migrating birds
蛇毒素	she	su	venin
蛇皮果	she	guo	salak (Salacca zalacca) (fruit)
蛇精病	she	bing	(slang) (pun on 神經病|神经病[shen2 jing1 bing4]) crazy person; nutjob
蛇纹岩	she	yan	serpentine (geology)
蛇纹石	she	shi	serpentine (geology)
蛇绿岩	she	yan	ophiolite (geology)
蛇绿混杂	she	za	ophiolite melange (geology)
蛇绿混杂岩	she	yan	ophiolite (geology)
蛇绿混杂岩带	she	dai	ophiolite belt (geology)
蛇蝎美人	she	ren	beautiful but dangerous woman; femme fatale
蛇麻草	she	cao	hop (Humulus lupulus), climbing plant whose flower cones are used in brewing beer
蛇龙珠	she	zhu	Cabernet Gernischt (grape type)
蛊惑人心	gu	xin	to stir up public sentiment by false statements (idiom); to resort to demagogy
蛋包饭	dan	fan	omurice, Japanese dish consisting of an omelet wrapped around fried rice and often topped with ketchup
蛋卷儿	dan	r	erhua variant of 蛋卷[dan4 juan3]
蛋奶冻	dan	dong	custard
蛋奶素	dan	su	ovo-lacto vegetarian
蛋奶酥	dan	su	soufflé
蛋氨酸	dan	suan	methionine (Met), an essential amino acid
蛋炒饭	dan	fan	egg fried rice (made by stir-frying cold cooked rice with eggs and vegetables)
蛋白光	dan	guang	opalescence
蛋白石	dan	shi	opal
蛋白粉	dan	fen	protein powder
蛋白素	dan	su	albumin
蛋白胨	dan	dong	peptone (biochemistry)
蛋白质	dan	zhi	protein
蛋白酶	dan	mei	protease
蛋糕裙	dan	qun	layered skirt
蛋花汤	dan	tang	clear soup containing beaten egg and green leafy vegetable; eggdrop soup
蛋黄素	dan	su	lecithin (phospholipid found in egg yolk)
蛋黄酱	dan	jiang	mayonnaise
蛐蛐儿	qu	r	erhua form of 蛐蛐[qu1 qu5]
蛔虫病	hui	bing	ascariasis, infection caused by the roundworm Ascaris lumbricoides
蛛丝马迹	zhu	ji	lit. spider's thread and horse track; tiny hints (of a secret); traces
蛛形纲	zhu	gang	Arachnids (class of arthropods)
蛟河市	jiao	shi	Jiaohe, a county-level city in Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
蛤蟆夯	ha	hang	power-driven rammer or tamper
蛤蟆镜	ha	jing	aviator sunglasses
蛮不讲理	man	li	completely unreasonable
蛮横无理	man	li	rude and unreasonable
蛲虫病	nao	bing	enterobiasis
蛾摩拉	e	la	Gomorrah
蛾眉皓齿	e	chi	beautiful eyebrow and white teeth (idiom); lovely young woman
蜀山区	shu	qu	Shushan, a district of Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
蜀犬吠日	shu	ri	lit. Sichuan dogs bark at the sun (idiom); fig. a simpleton will marvel at even the most common things; alludes to the Sichuan foggy weather where it's uncommon to see a sunny day
蜂巢胃	feng	wei	reticulum (second stomach of ruminants); honeycomb tripe
蜂拥而至	feng	zhi	to arrive in huge numbers; to flock there
蜂王乳	feng	ru	royal jelly
蜂王浆	feng	jiang	royal jelly
蜂王精	feng	jing	royal jelly
蜂皇浆	feng	jiang	royal jelly
蜂窝煤	feng	mei	hexagonal household coal briquette
蜂窝组织	feng	zhi	(physiology) areolar tissue; cellular tissue
蜂窝网络	feng	luo	cellular network
蜂蜜棒	feng	bang	honey dipper
蜂蜜酒	feng	jiu	mead
蜂鸣器	feng	qi	buzzer
蜈支洲岛	wu	dao	Wuzhizhou Island, Hainan
蜕化变质	tui	zhi	(idiom) to degenerate (morally); to become depraved
蜗杆副	wo	fu	worm-gear pair; worm drive; worm and worm gear
蜗行牛步	wo	bu	lit. to crawl like a snail and plod along like an old ox (idiom); fig. to move at a snail's pace; to make slow progress
蜘蛛人	zhi	ren	Spider-Man, see 蜘蛛俠|蜘蛛侠; nickname of French skyscraper climber Alain Robert (1962-); person who scales the outer walls of a building as a stunt or for building maintenance
蜘蛛侠	zhi	xia	Spider-Man, comic book superhero
蜘蛛星云	zhi	yun	Tarantula Nebula
蜘蛛痣	zhi	zhi	arterial spider
蜘蛛类	zhi	lei	arachnid
蜘蛛网	zhi	wang	cobweb; spider web
蜚声海外	fei	wai	(literary) to be renowned abroad; to gain fame overseas
蜚短流长	fei	chang	(idiom) to gossip about others; to spread gossip or rumors
蜚蠊科	fei	ke	Blattidae, family of about 550 species of cockroach
蜜大腿	mi	tui	(coll.) curvaceous thighs (loanword from Korean)
蜜月假期	mi	qi	honeymoon
蜜桃臀	mi	tun	(coll.) peach butt; round, firm buttocks
蜜蜂房	mi	fang	beehive
蜜袋鼯	mi	wu	sugar glider (Petaurus breviceps)
蜡像馆	la	guan	wax museum; waxworks
蜡样芽孢杆菌	la	jun	(microbiology) Bacillus cereus
蜡烛不点不亮	la	liang	some people have to be pushed for them to take action
蜡烛两头烧	la	shao	to burn the candle at both ends (idiom); to labor under a double burden
蜡笔小新	la	xin	Crayon Shin-chan, manga and anime series
蜥形纲	xi	gang	Sauropsida, class within Chordata containing reptiles
蜥臀目	xi	mu	Saurischia or lizard-hipped dinosaurs, order within superorder Dinosauria
蜱咬病	pi	bing	tick-bite sickness; informal term for 發熱伴血小板減少綜合徵|发热伴血小板减少综合征[fa1 re4 ban4 xue4 xiao3 ban3 jian3 shao3 zong1 he2 zheng1]
蜻蛉目	qing	mu	Odonata, order consisting of about 6,000 species of dragonflies and damselflies
蜻蜓撼石柱	qing	zhu	lit. the dragon-fly shakes the stone tower (idiom); fig. to overestimate one's capabilities
蜻蜓点水	qing	shui	lit. the dragonfly touches the water lightly; superficial contact (idiom)
蜻蜓目	qing	mu	Odonata, order consisting of about 6,000 species of dragonflies and damselflies
蝇头小利	ying	li	(idiom) meager profit; petty gain
蝇营狗苟	ying	gou	(lit.) to swarm like flies around rotten food and drag out an ignoble existence like a dog (idiom); (fig.) to lead an undignified life; to resort to any means for personal gain
蝇蛆病	ying	bing	myiasis
蝈蝈儿	guo	r	erhua variant of 蟈蟈|蝈蝈[guo1 guo5]
蝈蝈笼	guo	long	cage for singing cicada
蝈螽属	guo	shu	Gampsocleis genus (grasshoppers and crickets)
蝎虎座	xie	zuo	Lacerta (constellation)
蝙蝠侠	bian	xia	Batman, comic book superhero
蝲蝲蛄	la	gu	mole cricket
蝴蝶兰	hu	lan	moth orchid (genus Phalaenopsis)
蝴蝶效应	hu	ying	butterfly effect (dynamical systems theory)
蝴蝶犬	hu	quan	papillon (lapdog with butterfly-like ears)
蝴蝶琴	hu	qin	same as yangqin 揚琴|扬琴, dulcimer
蝴蝶结	hu	jie	bow; bowknot
蝴蝶花	hu	hua	iris; Iris tectorum
蝴蝶酥	hu	su	crispy short-crust pastry; mille-feuilles
蝴蝶铰	hu	jiao	hinge
蝴蝶领结	hu	jie	bow tie
蝶古巴特	die	te	(Tw) (loanword) decoupage
蝶形领带	die	dai	bow tie
蝶形领结	die	jie	bow tie
蝼蛄科	lou	ke	Gryllolaptaptidae family of burrowing insects of order Orthoptera; mole crickets
融为一体	rong	ti	to fuse together (idiom); hypostatic union (religion)
融会贯通	rong	tong	(idiom) to integrate knowledge from various sources into a deep and coherent understanding of a subject
融合为一	rong	yi	to form a cohesive whole; to fuse together
融媒体	rong	ti	converged media; integrated media
融安县	rong	xian	Rong'an, a county in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
融水县	rong	xian	see 融水苗族自治縣|融水苗族自治县[Rong2 shui3 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
融水苗族自治县	rong	xian	Rongshui Miao Autonomous County, in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
融汇贯通	rong	tong	variant of 融會貫通|融会贯通[rong2 hui4 guan4 tong1]
融雪天气	rong	qi	a thaw
螟蛉子	ming	zi	adopted son
螳臂当车	tang	che	(lit.) a mantis trying to stop a chariot (idiom); (fig.) to overrate oneself and attempt sth impossible
螳臂挡车	tang	che	see 螳臂當車|螳臂当车[tang2 bi4 dang1 che1]
螳螂捕蝉	tang	chan	see 螳螂捕蟬，黃雀在後|螳螂捕蝉，黄雀在后[tang2 lang2 bu3 chan2 , huang2 que4 zai4 hou4]
螳螂捕蝉黄雀在后	tang	hou	(lit.) the mantis stalks the cicada, unaware of the siskin behind (idiom, from Daoist classic Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); (fig.) to pursue a narrow gain while neglecting a greater danger
螺丝刀	luo	dao	screwdriver; CL:把[ba3]
螺丝帽	luo	mao	nut (female component of nut and bolt)
螺丝母	luo	mu	nut (female component of nut and bolt)
螺丝粉	luo	fen	gemelli (corkscrew shaped pasta)
螺丝起子	luo	zi	screwdriver
螺丝钉	luo	ding	screw
螺丝钻	luo	zuan	auger; gimlet; screwdriver (cocktail)
螺旋体	luo	ti	Spirochaetes, phylum of extremophile bacteria; spiral-shaped bacterium, e.g. causing syphilis
螺旋千斤顶	luo	ding	screw jack
螺旋形	luo	xing	spiral
螺旋曲面	luo	mian	spiral surface
螺旋桨	luo	jiang	propeller
螺旋测微器	luo	qi	micrometer screw gauge; micrometer
螺旋粉	luo	fen	fusilli (corkscrew shaped pasta)
螺旋藻	luo	zao	spiral algae; spirulina (dietary supplement)
螺旋钳	luo	qian	wrench
螺旋面	luo	mian	fusilli (pasta)
螺线管	luo	guan	solenoid
螺蛳粉	luo	fen	luosifen (rice noodles served in a broth made from river snails and pork bones, often seasoned with stinky fermented bamboo shoots)
螽斯总科	zhong	ke	Tettigonioidea (katydids and crickets)
螽斯科	zhong	ke	Tettigoniidae (katydids and crickets)
蟋蟀草	xi	cao	wire grass (Eleusine indica)
蟑螂屋	zhang	wu	cockroach trap
蟠尾丝虫	pan	chong	Onchocerca volvulus, the filarial parasite worm causing "river blindness" or onchocerciasis, the second most common cause of blindness in humans
蟠尾丝虫症	pan	zheng	"river blindness" or onchocerciasis, the second most common cause of blindness in humans, caused by the filarial parasite worm Onchocerca volvulus
蟠根错节	pan	jie	variant of 盤根錯節|盘根错节[pan2 gen1 cuo4 jie2]
蟪蛄不知春秋	hui	qiu	"the short-lived cicada knows nothing of spring or autumn" (from the Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3]); (fig.) to have a limited perspective
蟹味菇	xie	gu	beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessulatus)
蟹爪兰	xie	lan	holiday cactus
蟹状星云	xie	yun	Crab Nebula
蟾宫折桂	chan	gui	lit. plucking a branch of osmanthus from the Toad Palace (i.e. the moon); fig. to succeed in the imperial examination
蠕动前进	ru	jin	wriggle
蠕形动物	ru	wu	soft-bodied organisms; vermes (obsolete taxonomic term)
蠢蠢欲动	chun	dong	to begin to stir (idiom); to get restless; to become threatening
蠹众木折	du	zhe	Danger appears where many harmful factors exist. (idiom)
蠹国害民	du	min	to rob the state and hurt the people (idiom)
蠹鱼子	du	zi	silverfish; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
血中毒	xue	du	blood poisoning
血亲复仇	xue	chou	blood vengeance
血债累累	xue	lei	debts of blood crying out for retribution
血债血偿	xue	chang	a debt of blood must be paid in blood; blood calls for blood; also pr. [xue4 zhai4 xie3 chang2]
血债要用血来偿	xue	chang	A debt of blood must be paid in blood.; Blood calls for blood.
血债要用血来还	xue	huan	A debt of blood must be paid in blood.; Blood calls for blood.
血光之灾	xue	zai	(idiom) mortal danger; fatal disaster
血凝素	xue	su	hemaglutinin (the H of virus such as bird flu H5N1)
血制品	xue	pin	blood products
血压计	xue	ji	blood pressure meter; sphygmomanometer
血友病	xue	bing	hemophilia
血口喷人	xue	ren	to spit blood (idiom); venomous slander; malicious attacks
血吸虫	xue	chong	schistosoma
血吸虫病	xue	bing	schistosomiasis
血小板	xue	ban	blood platelet
血常规	xue	gui	(medicine) blood routine examination; full blood count; complete blood count
血本无归	xue	gui	(idiom) to lose everything one invested; to lose one's shirt
血栓形成	xue	cheng	thrombosis
血栓病	xue	bing	thrombosis
血栓症	xue	zheng	thrombosis
血气之勇	xue	yong	(idiom) the courage born of stirred emotions
血气方刚	xue	gang	full of sap (idiom); young and vigorous
血氧含量	xue	liang	blood oxygen level
血氧量	xue	liang	blood oxygen level
血汗工厂	xue	chang	sweatshop
血汗钱	xue	qian	hard-earned money
血泪史	xue	shi	(fig.) history full of suffering; heart-rending story; CL:部[bu4]
血流成河	xue	he	rivers of blood (idiom); bloodbath
血流漂杵	xue	chu	enough blood flowing to float pestles (idiom); rivers of blood; blood bath
血浓于水	xue	shui	blood is thicker than water; fig. family ties are closer than social relations
血液凝结	xue	jie	blood clotting
血液循环	xue	huan	blood circulation
血液恐怖症	xue	zheng	blood phobia
血液病	xue	bing	disease of the blood
血液透析	xue	xi	hemodialysis
血液透析机	xue	ji	hemodialysis machine
血淋淋	xie	lin	bloody; blood-soaked; gory; grisly; cruel; brutal; harsh; grim; bitter
血清张力素	xue	su	serotonin
血清素	xue	su	serotonin
血渍斑斑	xue	ban	spattered in blood; covered in bloodstains
血盆大口	xue	kou	bloody mouth wide open like a sacrificial bowl (idiom); ferocious mouth of beast of prey; fig. greedy exploiter; rapacious aggressor
血管摄影	xue	ying	angiography
血管支架	xue	jia	(medicine) vascular stent; stent (used to keep a blood vessel open)
血管瘤	xue	liu	angioma (medicine)
血管粥样硬化	xue	hua	atherosclerosis; hardening of the arteries
血管造影	xue	ying	angiography
血糖生成指数	xue	shu	glycemic index
血红素	xue	su	(biochemistry) heme; (Tw) hemoglobin
血红蛋白	xue	bai	hemoglobin
血细胞	xue	bao	blood cell
血统论	xue	lun	class division into proletariat and bourgeoisie class enemy, in use esp. during the Cultural Revolution
血缘关系	xue	xi	blood relationship; consanguinity
血肉模糊	xue	hu	(idiom) badly mangled or mutilated; gruesome
血肉横飞	xue	fei	(idiom) flesh and blood flying in all directions; carnage
血肉相连	xue	lian	one's own flesh and blood (idiom); closely related
血脉偾张	xue	zhang	(lit.) blood vessels swell wide (idiom); (fig.) one's blood runs quicker; to be excited
血腥玛丽	xue	li	Bloody Mary
血色素	xue	su	hematin (blood pigment); heme; hemoglobin
血色素沉积症	xue	zheng	hemochromatosis
血蓝素	xue	su	(biochemistry) hemocyanin
血豆腐	xue	fu	blood tofu (coagulated animal blood)
血迹斑斑	xue	ban	bloodstained
血雨腥风	xue	feng	see 腥風血雨|腥风血雨[xing1 feng1 xue4 yu3]
行万里路胜读万卷书	xing	shu	to travel a thousand miles beats reading a thousand books
行不从径	xing	jing	lit. not following the straight path (idiom); fig. looking for a shortcut to get ahead in work or study
行不改姓坐不改名	xing	ming	see 行不更名，坐不改姓[xing2 bu4 geng1 ming2 , zuo4 bu4 gai3 xing4]
行不更名坐不改姓	xing	xing	I am who I am and not ashamed of it; to be proud of one's name and stand by one's actions
行不由径	xing	jing	lit. never taking a short-cut (idiom); fig. upright and honest
行不通	xing	tong	won't work; will get (you) nowhere
行不顾言	xing	yan	to say one thing and do another (idiom)
行为主义	xing	yi	behaviorism
行为准则	xing	ze	code of conduct; standard of conduct
行为数据	xing	ju	behavioral data (marketing)
行为艺术	xing	shu	performance art
行为艺术家	xing	jia	performance artist
行之有效	xing	xiao	to be effective (idiom)
行事历	xing	li	calendar; schedule
行云流水	xing	shui	lit. moving clouds and flowing water (idiom); fig. very natural and flowing style of calligraphy, writing, etc; natural and unforced
行人径	xing	jing	footway
行人道	xing	dao	(dialect) sidewalk
行使职权	xing	quan	to exercise power
行侠仗义	xing	yi	to be chivalrous
行军床	xing	chuang	camp bed; bivouac
行军礼	xing	li	military salute
行凶者	xing	zhe	perpetrator
行刑队	xing	dui	firing squad
行列式	hang	shi	determinant (math.)
行动不便	xing	bian	unable to move freely; difficult to get about
行动主义	xing	yi	activism
行动值	xing	zhi	(gaming) action points (points required to complete an action); (Tw) action level (the level of concentration of a harmful substance at which remedial action is considered necessary)
行动剧	xing	ju	(Tw) street theater (esp. as a form of political expression)
行动方案	xing	an	program of action
行动电源	xing	yuan	(Tw) power bank
行动电话	xing	hua	mobile phone (Tw)
行动纲领	xing	ling	action plan; program of action
行动自由	xing	you	freedom of action
行动艺术	xing	shu	performance art
行动艺术家	xing	jia	performance artist
行动装置	xing	zhi	mobile device (Tw)
行动计划	xing	hua	action plan
行唐县	xing	xian	Xingtang, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
行家里手	hang	shou	connoisseur; expert
行将就木	xing	mu	to approach one's coffin (idiom); with one foot in the grave
行将结束	xing	shu	approaching the end; about to conclude
行尸走肉	xing	rou	walking corpse (idiom); zombie; person who lives only on the material level
行得通	xing	tong	practicable; realizable; will work
行政会议	xing	yi	Executive Council of Hong Kong
行政公署	xing	shu	administrative office
行政区	xing	qu	administrative district
行政区划	xing	hua	administrative subdivision
行政区划图	xing	tu	political map
行政区域	xing	yu	administrative area
行政区画	xing	hua	administrative subdivision (e.g. of provinces into counties)
行政单位	xing	wei	administrative unit (e.g. province 省[sheng3], prefecture 地區|地区[di4 qu1] or county 縣|县[xian4])
行政员	xing	yuan	administrator
行政命令	xing	ling	executive order
行政总厨	xing	chu	executive chef
行政拘留	xing	liu	to incarcerate sb for a violation of administrative law, typically for 10 days or less; administrative detention
行政救济	xing	ji	administrative remedy
行政机关	xing	guan	administrative authority; branch of government
行政权	xing	quan	administrative authority; executive power
行政法	xing	fa	administrative law
行政管理	xing	li	administration; administrative management
行政部门	xing	men	administrative department; administration; executive (government branch)
行政长官	xing	guan	chief executive; magistrate
行政院	xing	yuan	Executive Yuan, the executive branch of government under the constitution of Republic of China, then of Taiwan
行星际	xing	ji	interplanetary
行有余力	xing	li	after that, any remaining energy (idiom from Analects); time for extracurricular activities
行李传送带	xing	dai	luggage conveyor belt; baggage carousel
行李员	xing	yuan	porter; bellboy
行李房	xing	fang	luggage office
行李搬运工	xing	gong	baggage handler
行李架	xing	jia	luggage rack
行李票	xing	piao	baggage tag
行李箱	xing	xiang	suitcase; baggage compartment; overhead bin
行李袋	xing	dai	travel bag
行波管	xing	guan	traveling wave tube (electronics)
行百里者半九十	xing	shi	lit. ninety li is merely a half of a hundred li journey (idiom); fig. the closer one is to completing a task, the tougher it gets; a task is not done until it's done
行礼如仪	xing	yi	to perform the ritual bows; to follow the customary ceremonies
行程单	xing	dan	(e-ticket) itinerary receipt
行色匆匆	xing	cong	hurried; in a haste
行行出状元	hang	yuan	lit. in every trade, a master appears (idiom); fig. You can produce outstanding achievements in any task, provided you put it enough love and diligence
行车记录仪	xing	yi	dashcam
行进挡	xing	dang	forward gear
行道树	xing	shu	roadside tree; street tree
行酒令	xing	ling	to play a drinking game
行销诉求	xing	qiu	marketing message
行销长	xing	zhang	(Tw) chief marketing officer (CMO)
行驶证	xing	zheng	vehicle registration certificate
衍圣公	yan	gong	hereditary title bestowed on Confucius' descendants
衍圣公府	yan	fu	the official residence of Confucius' descendants at Qufu 曲阜, Shandong
衍声复词	yan	ci	compound word, such as 玫瑰[mei2 gui1] or 咖啡[ka1 fei1], whose meaning is unrelated to the individual characters (Note: These characters are often not used independently in modern Chinese.)
衍射格子	yan	zi	diffraction grating (physics)
衍射角	yan	jiao	angle of diffraction (physics)
衍生产品	yan	pin	derivative product; derivative (in finance)
衍生剧	yan	ju	spin-off series (TV)
衍生工具	yan	ju	derivative (finance)
衍生物	yan	wu	derivative; offshoot
街坊四邻	jie	lin	neighbors; the whole neighborhood
街坊邻里	jie	li	neighbors; the whole neighborhood
街头巷尾	jie	wei	top of streets, bottom of alleys (idiom); everywhere in the city
街头艺人	jie	ren	busker; street artist
街头霸王	jie	wang	Street Fighter (video game series)
街溜子	jie	zi	town idler
街知巷闻	jie	wen	to be known to everyone
街谈巷议	jie	yi	(idiom) town gossip; streetcorner conversations
街道办	jie	ban	(PRC) subdistrict office (basic-level urban administrative unit) (abbr. for 街道辦事處|街道办事处[jie1 dao4 ban4 shi4 chu4])
街道办事处	jie	chu	(PRC) subdistrict office (basic-level urban administrative unit)
衡东县	heng	xian	Hengdong, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衡南县	heng	xian	Hengnan, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衡山县	heng	xian	Hengshan, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衡情酌理	heng	li	to weight the matter and deliberate the reason (idiom); to weigh and consider; to deliberate
衡水市	heng	shi	Hengshui, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
衡量制	heng	zhi	system of weights and measures
衡阳县	heng	xian	Hengyang, a county in Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
衡阳市	heng	shi	Hengyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
衢州市	qu	shi	Quzhou, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
衢江区	qu	qu	Qujiang, a district of Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
衣不蔽体	yi	ti	lit. clothes not covering the body (idiom); fig. poverty-stricken
衣冠冢	yi	zhong	cenotaph
衣冠楚楚	yi	chu	immaculately dressed; well-groomed; dapper
衣冠禽兽	yi	shou	lit. dressed up animal (idiom); fig. immoral and despicable person
衣单食薄	yi	bo	thin coat, meager food (idiom); life of wretched poverty; destitute
衣原体	yi	ti	Chlamydia (genus of intracellular parasitic bacteria)
衣原菌	yi	jun	Chlamydia
衣帽间	yi	jian	cloakroom
衣服缝边	yi	bian	hem
衣物柜	yi	gui	locker; lockable compartment
衣索比亚	yi	ya	Ethiopia (Tw)
衣索比亚界	yi	jie	(Tw) Ethiopian Zone, aka Afrotropical realm
衣裳钩儿	yi	r	clothes hook
衣钩儿	yi	r	erhua variant of 衣鉤|衣钩[yi1 gou1]
衣锦荣归	yi	gui	to come back to one's hometown in silken robes (idiom); to return in glory
衣锦还乡	yi	xiang	lit. to come back to one's hometown in silken robes (idiom); fig. to return home after making good; Taiwan pr. [yi4 jin3 huan2 xiang1]
衣食住行	yi	xing	(lit.) clothing, food, housing and transportation (idiom); (fig.) people's basic needs
衣食无忧	yi	you	not having to worry about clothes and food (idiom); to be provided with the basic necessities
衣食无虞	yi	yu	not having to worry about food and clothes (idiom); provided with the basic necessities
衣食父母	yi	mu	the people one depends upon for one's livelihood; one's bread and butter
补习班	bu	ban	cram class; cram school; evening classes
补偏救弊	bu	bi	to remedy defects and correct errors (idiom); to rectify past mistakes
补偿费	bu	fei	compensation
补充剂	bu	ji	dietary supplement
补充医疗	bu	liao	complementary medicine
补充品	bu	pin	complementary item
补充量	bu	liang	complement; complementary quantity
补光灯	bu	deng	fill light
补天浴日	bu	ri	(lit.) Nüwa mends the Heavens and Xihe bathes the Sun (idiom); (fig.) (of an achievement, deed, undertaking etc) grand; magnificent; unparalleled
补登机	bu	ji	passbook entry machine
补票处	bu	chu	additional ticket desk; stand-by counter
补给品	bu	pin	supplies
补给站	bu	zhan	depot; supply station; supply point
补给舰	bu	jian	supply ship
补给船	bu	chuan	supply ship
补给车	bu	che	(military) supply vehicle; (sports) support vehicle during cycling events, marathons etc
补缺拾遗	bu	yi	see 拾遺補缺|拾遗补缺[shi2 yi2 bu3 que1]
补胎片	bu	pian	tire patch (for puncture repair)
补足音程	bu	cheng	complementary interval; addition musical interval adding to an octave
补足额	bu	e	complement; complementary sum
表侄女	biao	nv	daughter of a male cousin via female line
表兄弟	biao	di	male cousin through a female relative
表决权	biao	quan	right to vote; vote
表妹夫	biao	fu	husband of younger female cousin via female line
表姊妹	biao	mei	father's sister's daughters; maternal female cousin
表姐夫	biao	fu	husband of older female cousin via female line
表姐妹	biao	mei	female cousin through a female relative
表弟妹	biao	mei	wife of younger male cousin via female line; younger cousins via female line
表弟媳	biao	xi	wife of younger male cousin via female line
表情包	biao	bao	image macro; visual meme; sticker package
表意文字	biao	zi	ideograph; ideographical writing system
表演赛	biao	sai	exhibition match
表现力	biao	li	expressive power
表现型	biao	xing	phenotype
表示层	biao	ceng	presentation layer
表示式	biao	shi	expression (math.)
表蒙子	biao	zi	watch glass; crystal
表观遗传学	biao	xue	epigenetics
表达式	biao	shi	expression (math.)
表里不一	biao	yi	outside appearance and inner reality differ (idiom); not what it seems; saying one thing but meaning sth different
表里如一	biao	yi	external appearance and inner thoughts coincide (idiom); to say what one means; to think and act as one
表露无遗	biao	yi	to show in full light; to be revealed in its entirety
表面上	biao	shang	outwardly; superficially; on the face of it
表面化	biao	hua	to come to the surface; to become apparent
表面外膜	biao	mo	surface coat
表面张力	biao	li	surface tension
表面文章	biao	zhang	superficial show; going through the motions
表面活化剂	biao	ji	surfactant
表面活性剂	biao	ji	surfactant
衰之以属	shuai	shu	to treat a debility according to its nature
衰变曲线	shuai	xian	decay curves
衰变热	shuai	re	decay heat
衰变链	shuai	lian	decay chain
衰退期	shuai	qi	recession (in economics)
袁世凯	yuan	kai	Yuan Shikai (1859-1916), senior general of late Qing, subsequently warlord and self-proclaimed emperor of China
袁于令	yuan	ling	Yuan Yuling (-1674) Qing writer, author of 西樓記|西楼记[Xi1 lou2 Ji4]
袁咏仪	yuan	yi	Anita Yuen (1971-), Hong Kong actress
袁宏道	yuan	dao	Yuan Hongdao (1568-1610), Ming dynasty poet and travel writer
袁州区	yuan	qu	Yuanzhou, a district of Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
袁隆平	yuan	ping	Yuan Longping (1930–2021), Chinese agronomist known as the "father of hybrid rice"
袅袅婷婷	niao	ting	(idiom) (of a woman) elegant and supple
袋鼠国	dai	guo	(slang) Australia
袖手旁观	xiu	guan	to watch with folded arms (idiom); to look on without lifting a finger
袖珍人	xiu	ren	little person; midget; dwarf
袖珍本	xiu	ben	pocket book; paperback
袖珍辞典	xiu	dian	pocket dictionary
袖珍音响	xiu	xiang	pocket stereo; walkman
袖筒儿	xiu	r	erhua variant of 袖筒[xiu4 tong3]
被上诉人	bei	ren	appellee (side that won in trial court, whose victory is being appealed by losing side)
被乘数	bei	shu	multiplicand
被优化掉	bei	diao	to be made redundant
被保人	bei	ren	insured person; insurance policyholder
被保险人	bei	ren	insured party; the person or entity covered under an insurance policy
被减数	bei	shu	(math.) minuend
被剥削者	bei	zhe	person suffering exploitation; the workers in Marxist theory
被加数	bei	shu	augend; addend
被动免疫	bei	yi	passive immunity
被动吸烟	bei	yan	second-hand smoking; passive smoking
被动收入	bei	ru	(finance) passive income
被告人	bei	ren	defendant (in legal case)
被和谐	bei	xie	to be "harmonized" i.e. censored
被子植物	bei	wu	angiosperm (flowering plants with seed contained in a fruit)
被子植物门	bei	men	angiospermae (phylum of flowering plants with seed contained in a fruit)
被害人	bei	ren	victim
被害者	bei	zhe	victim (of a wounding or murder)
被执行人	bei	ren	(law) person required to fulfill obligations set forth in a written court judgement (e.g. to pay compensation to sb)
被旅游	bei	you	(coll.) (of a dissident) to be taken on a tour, ostensibly a vacation, but actually a trip organized by the authorities where one's every move is watched
被爆者	bei	zhe	survivor of the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 被爆者 "hibakusha")
被物化	bei	hua	objectified
被窝儿	bei	r	erhua variant of 被窩|被窝[bei4 wo1]
被自杀	bei	sha	a death claimed to be a suicide by the authorities
被访者	bei	zhe	respondent (in a survey, questionnaire, study etc)
被选举权	bei	quan	the right to be elected; the right to stand for election
被除数	bei	shu	dividend (math.)
袭击者	xi	zhe	attacker
裁判员	cai	yuan	referee
裁判官	cai	guan	judge
裁判所	cai	suo	place of judgment; law court
裁纸机	cai	ji	trimmer; paper cutter
裁缝师	cai	shi	tailor
裁缝店	cai	dian	tailor's shop
裂体吸虫	lie	chong	schistosome, parasitic flatworm causing snail fever (bilharzia or schistosomiasis)
裂变产物	lie	wu	fission products
裂变材料	lie	liao	fissionable material
裂变武器	lie	qi	fission weapon
裂变炸弹	lie	dan	fission bomb
裂变碎片	lie	pian	fission fragment
裂殖菌	lie	jun	Schizomycetes (taxonomic class of fungi)
裂殖菌纲	lie	gang	Schizomycetes (taxonomic class of fungi)
裂脑人	lie	ren	commissurotomy
裂谷热	lie	re	Rift Valley fever (RVF)
装傻充愣	zhuang	leng	(idiom) to feign ignorance or stupidity; to pretend to be clueless
装卸工	zhuang	gong	docker; longshoreman
装可爱	zhuang	ai	to act cute; putting on adorable airs; to pretend to be lovely
装好人	zhuang	ren	to pretend to be nice
装模作样	zhuang	yang	(idiom) to put on an act; to show affectation; to indulge in histrionics
装洋蒜	zhuang	suan	to feign ignorance
装点门面	zhuang	mian	lit. to decorate the front of one's store (idiom); fig. to embellish (one's CV, etc); to keep up appearances
装甲车	zhuang	che	armored car; CL:輛|辆[liang4]
装甲车辆	zhuang	liang	armored vehicles
装疯卖傻	zhuang	sha	(idiom) to play the fool; to feign madness; to act dumb
装神弄鬼	zhuang	gui	(lit.) to pretend to be in contact with supernatural beings (idiom); (fig.) to create a false sense of mystery; to play tricks to deceive or scare others; to engage in hocus-pocus
装穷叫苦	zhuang	ku	to feign and complain bitterly of being poverty stricken (idiom)
装置物	zhuang	wu	fixture; installation
装聋作哑	zhuang	ya	to play deaf-mute
装腔作势	zhuang	shi	posturing; pretentious; affected
装配员	zhuang	yuan	assembly worker
装配工厂	zhuang	chang	assembly plant
装配线	zhuang	xian	assembly line; production line
装门面	zhuang	mian	see 裝點門面|装点门面[zhuang1 dian3 men2 mian4]
装饰品	zhuang	pin	ornament
装饰物	zhuang	wu	ornament; ornamentation
装饰道具	zhuang	ju	(theater) set dressing; trim prop
裒多益寡	pou	gua	to take from the rich and give to the poor (idiom)
裒敛无厌	pou	yan	to accumulate wealth without satisfaction; to continually plunder (idiom)
裕华区	yu	qu	Yuhua, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
裕固族	yu	zu	Yugur ethnic group
裕安区	yu	qu	Yu'an, a district of Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
裕民县	yu	xian	Yumin, a county in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
裙带亲	qun	qin	relatives of the wife (slightly pejorative)
裙带关系	qun	xi	(idiom) favoritism shown to sb because of the influence of the person's wife or other female relative; (idiom) (by extension) favoritism towards relatives, friends or associates
裙带官	qun	guan	official who gained his position through the influence of a female relative
裙带菜	qun	cai	wakame (Undaria pinnatifida), an edible seaweed
裙带资本主义	qun	yi	crony capitalism
裙带风	qun	feng	the practice of favoring sb because of the influence of the person's wife or other female relative; (by extension) culture of favoritism towards relatives, friends and associates
裤腰带	ku	dai	waistband
裱花袋	biao	dai	pastry bag
裸体主义	luo	yi	nudism
裸体主义者	luo	zhe	nudist
裸地化	luo	hua	denudation
裸子植物	luo	wu	gymnosperm (plants with seed contained in a cone)
裸子植物门	luo	men	gymnosperm (plants with seed contained in a cone)
裸露狂	luo	kuang	exhibitionism
裹尸布	guo	bu	shroud; cloth to wrap a corpse
裹足不前	guo	qian	to stand still without advancing (idiom); to hesitate and hold back
褐冠山雀	he	que	(bird species of China) grey-crested tit (Lophophanes dichrous)
褐冠鹃隼	he	sun	(bird species of China) Jerdon's baza (Aviceda jerdoni)
褐喉旋木雀	he	que	(bird species of China) Sikkim treecreeper (Certhia discolor)
褐喉沙燕	he	yan	(bird species of China) grey-throated martin (Riparia chinensis)
褐喉食蜜鸟	he	niao	(bird species of China) brown-throated sunbird (Anthreptes malacensis)
褐头凤鹛	he	mei	(bird species of China) Taiwan yuhina (Yuhina brunneiceps)
褐头山雀	he	que	(bird species of China) willow tit (Poecile montanus)
褐头岭雀	he	que	(bird species of China) Sillem's mountain finch (Leucosticte sillemi)
褐头雀鹛	he	mei	(bird species of China) Manipur fulvetta (Fulvetta manipurensis)
褐头鸫	he	dong	(bird species of China) grey-sided thrush (Turdus feae)
褐头鹀	he	wu	(bird species of China) red-headed bunting (Emberiza bruniceps)
褐头鹪莺	he	ying	(bird species of China) plain prinia (Prinia inornata)
褐山鹪莺	he	ying	(bird species of China) brown prinia (Prinia polychroa)
褐岩鹨	he	liu	(bird species of China) brown accentor (Prunella fulvescens)
褐林鸮	he	xiao	(bird species of China) brown wood owl (Strix leptogrammica)
褐柳莺	he	ying	(bird species of China) dusky warbler (Phylloscopus fuscatus)
褐河乌	he	wu	(bird species of China) brown dipper (Cinclus pallasii)
褐渔鸮	he	xiao	(bird species of China) brown fish owl (Ketupa zeylonensis)
褐灰雀	he	que	(bird species of China) brown bullfinch (Pyrrhula nipalensis)
褐翅叉尾海燕	he	yan	(bird species of China) Tristram's storm petrel (Hydrobates tristrami)
褐翅燕鸥	he	ou	(bird species of China) bridled tern (Onychoprion anaethetus)
褐翅雪雀	he	que	(bird species of China) black-winged snowfinch (Montifringilla adamsi)
褐翅鸦雀	he	que	(bird species of China) brown-winged parrotbill (Suthora brunnea)
褐翅鸦鹃	he	juan	(bird species of China) greater coucal (Centropus sinensis)
褐耳鹰	he	ying	(bird species of China) shikra (Accipiter badius)
褐胁雀鹛	he	mei	(bird species of China) rusty-capped fulvetta (Schoeniparus dubius)
褐背地山雀	he	que	(bird species of China) ground tit (Pseudopodoces humilis)
褐背鹟鵙	he	ju	(bird species of China) bar-winged flycatcher-shrike (Hemipus picatus)
褐胸噪鹛	he	mei	(bird species of China) grey laughingthrush (Garrulax maesi)
褐胸山鹧鸪	he	gu	(bird species of China) bar-backed partridge (Arborophila brunneopectus)
褐胸鹟	he	weng	(bird species of China) brown-breasted flycatcher (Muscicapa muttui)
褐脸雀鹛	he	mei	(bird species of China) brown-cheeked fulvetta (Alcippe poioicephala)
褐顶雀鹛	he	mei	(bird species of China) dusky fulvetta (Schoeniparus brunneus)
褐马鸡	he	ji	(bird species of China) brown eared pheasant (Crossoptilon mantchuricum)
褐鲣鸟	he	niao	(bird species of China) brown booby (Sula leucogaster)
褐鸦雀	he	que	(bird species of China) brown parrotbill (Paradoxornis unicolor)
褒禅山	bao	shan	Mt Baochan in Anhui; formerly known as Mt Hua 華山|华山
褚人获	chu	huo	Chu Renhuo (1635-1682), author of historical novel Dramatized History of Sui and Tang 隋唐演義|隋唐演义[Sui2 Tang2 Yan3 yi4]
褚遂良	chu	liang	Chu Suiliang (596-659), one of Four Great Calligraphers of early Tang 唐初四大家[Tang2 chu1 Si4 Da4 jia1]
褟绦子	ta	zi	lace hemming
褪套儿	tun	r	(coll.) to break loose; to shake off responsibility
褪黑激素	tui	su	(biochemistry) melatonin
褪黑素	tui	su	(biochemistry) melatonin
褶子了	zhe	le	to make a mess of sth; to bungle; to mismanage
褶皱山系	zhe	xi	fold mountain system (geology)
褶皱山脉	zhe	mai	fold mountain range (geology)
襄垣县	xiang	xian	Xiangyuan, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
襄城区	xiang	qu	Xiangcheng, a district of Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
襄城县	xiang	xian	Xiangcheng, a county in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
襄州区	xiang	qu	Xiangzhou, a district of Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
襄汾县	xiang	xian	Xiangfen, a county in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
襄都区	xiang	qu	Xiangdu, a district of Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
襄阳市	xiang	shi	Xiangyang, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
襟副翼	jin	yi	flaperon (aeronautics)
襟怀坦白	jin	bai	open and candid (idiom); not hiding anything; ingenuous; openhearted
襟怀夷旷	jin	kuang	broad-minded
西万尼	xi	ni	Silvaner (grape type)
西丰县	xi	xian	Xifeng, a county in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
西乃山	xi	shan	Mount Sinai
西乌珠穆沁旗	xi	qi	West Ujimqin banner or Baruun Üzemchin khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
西乡县	xi	xian	Xixiang, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
西乡塘	xi	tang	see 西鄉塘區|西乡塘区[Xi1 xiang1 tang2 Qu1]
西乡塘区	xi	qu	Xixiangtang, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
西伯利亚	xi	ya	Siberia
西伯利亚银鸥	xi	ou	(bird species of China) Vega gull (Larus vegae)
西元前	xi	qian	BCE (before the Common Era); BC (before Christ)
西充县	xi	xian	Xichong, a county in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
西兰花	xi	hua	broccoli
西兰苔	xi	tai	broccolini
西北农林科技大学	xi	xue	Northwest A&F University
西北大学	xi	xue	Northwest University
西北工业大学	xi	xue	Northwestern Polytechnical University
西北方	xi	fang	northwest; northwestern
西北航空公司	xi	si	Northwest Airlines
西北部	xi	bu	northwest part
西北雨	xi	yu	thundershower (Tw)
西半球	xi	qiu	the Western Hemisphere
西华县	xi	xian	Xihua, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
西南中沙群岛	xi	dao	Xinanzhongsha islands, Hainan
西南亚	xi	ya	southwest Asia
西南交通大学	xi	xue	Southwest Jiaotong University
西南冠纹柳莺	xi	ying	(bird species of China) Blyth's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus reguloides)
西南大学	xi	xue	Southwest University (Chongqing)
西南官话	xi	hua	Southwestern Mandarin, dialect group of Mandarin spoken primarily in southwestern China
西南栗耳凤鹛	xi	mei	(bird species of China) striated yuhina (Yuhina castaniceps)
西南部	xi	bu	southwest part
西印度	xi	du	West Indies (i.e. the Caribbean)
西厢记	xi	ji	Romance of the West Chamber by Wang Shifu 王實甫|王实甫[Wang2 Shi2 fu3]
西双版纳	xi	na	see 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
西双版纳傣族自治州	xi	zhou	Xishuangbanna Dai Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
西双版纳州	xi	zhou	see 西雙版納傣族自治州|西双版纳傣族自治州[Xi1 shuang1 ban3 na4 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
西双版纳粗榧	xi	fei	Cephalotaxus mannii (botany)
西吉县	xi	xian	Xiji, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
西和县	xi	xian	Xihe, a county in Longnan City 隴南市|陇南市[Long3 nan2 Shi4], Gansu
西哈努克	xi	ke	(King) Sihanouk (of Cambodia)
西固区	xi	qu	Xigu, a district of Lanzhou City 蘭州市|兰州市[Lan2 zhou1 Shi4], Gansu
西地那非	xi	fei	sildenafil (virility drug) (loanword)
西坡拉	xi	la	Zipporah, wife of Moses
西城区	xi	qu	Xicheng, a district of central Beijing
西域记	xi	ji	Report of the regions west of Great Tang; travel record of Xuan Zang 玄奘 on his travels to Central Asia and India
西塞山	xi	shan	see 西塞山區|西塞山区[Xi1 sai4 shan1 Qu1]
西塞山区	xi	qu	Xisaishan, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
西塞罗	xi	luo	Marcus Tullius Cicero (106–43 BC), Roman statesman, orator and philosopher
西夏区	xi	qu	Xixia, a district of Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
西太平洋	xi	yang	the western Pacific Ocean
西奈半岛	xi	dao	Sinai Peninsula
西奈山	xi	shan	Mount Sinai
西子捧心	xi	xin	(lit.) Xishi clasps at her heart (idiom); (fig.) a woman who is beautiful even when suffering the pangs of illness
西孟加拉邦	xi	bang	West Bengal
西宁市	xi	shi	Xining, prefecture-level city and capital of Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
西安事变	xi	bian	Xi'an Incident of 12th December 1936 (kidnap of Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2])
西安交通大学	xi	xue	Xi'an Jiaotong University (XJTU)
西安区	xi	qu	Xi'an, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang; Xi'an, a district of Liaoyuan City 遼源市|辽源市[Liao2 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
西安外国语大学	xi	xue	Xi'an International Studies University (XISU)
西安市	xi	shi	Xi'an, sub-provincial city and capital of Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
西安电子科技大学	xi	xue	Xidian University
西属撒哈拉	xi	la	Spanish Sahara (former Spanish colony in Africa)
西屯区	xi	qu	Xitun District of Taichung, Taiwan
西山区	xi	qu	Xishan, a district of Kunming City 昆明市[Kun1 ming2 Shi4], Yunnan
西岗区	xi	qu	Xigang, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
西峡县	xi	xian	Xixia, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
西峰区	xi	qu	Xifeng, a district of Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
西工区	xi	qu	Xigong, a district of Luoyang City 洛陽市|洛阳市[Luo4 yang2 Shi4], Henan
西市区	xi	qu	Xishi, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
西平县	xi	xian	Xiping, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
西康省	xi	sheng	western Kham; historic province of Tibet in Kham region and west Sichuan, a province of Republic of China 1928-49 with capital Ya'an 雅安[Ya3 an1]
西弗吉尼亚	xi	ya	West Virginia, US state
西德尼	xi	ni	Sidney or Sydney (name)
西拉雅族	xi	zu	Siraya, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
西撒哈拉	xi	la	Western Sahara
西斯塔尼	xi	ni	Sistani (name of a prominent Iraqi Ayatollah)
西斯廷	xi	ting	Sistine (Chapel); also written 西斯汀
西斯汀	xi	ting	Sistine (Chapel); also written 西斯廷
西方人	xi	ren	Westerner; Occidental
西方松鸡	xi	ji	(bird species of China) western capercaillie (Tetrao urogallus)
西方极乐世界	xi	jie	Western Pure Land of Ultimate Bliss or Sukhavati (Sanskrit)
西方滨鹬	xi	yu	(bird species of China) western sandpiper (Calidris mauri)
西方狍	xi	pao	roe deer; capreolus capreolus
西方秧鸡	xi	ji	(bird species of China) water rail (Rallus aquaticus)
西方马脑炎病毒	xi	du	western equine encephalitis (WEE) virus
西施犬	xi	quan	shih tzu (dog breed)
西昌市	xi	shi	Xichang, a county-level city in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
西替利嗪	xi	qin	(loanword) cetirizine
西来庵	xi	an	Xilai Temple (Tainan, Taiwan)
西林县	xi	xian	Xilin, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
西格玛	xi	ma	sigma (Greek letter Σ, σ)
西格蒙德	xi	de	Sigmund (name)
西格马	xi	ma	sigma (Greek letter Σ, σ)
西棕胸佛法僧	xi	seng	(bird species) Indian roller (Coracias benghalensis)
西欧联盟	xi	meng	Western European Union (WEU)
西沙区	xi	qu	Xisha, a district of Sansha City 三沙市[San1 sha1 Shi4], Hainan
西沙群岛	xi	dao	Paracel Islands, in the South China Sea
西洋人	xi	ren	Westerner
西洋参	xi	shen	American ginseng (Panax quinquefolius)
西洋景	xi	jing	see 西洋鏡|西洋镜[xi1 yang2 jing4]
西洋杉	xi	shan	cedar
西洋棋	xi	qi	chess
西洋菜	xi	cai	watercress (Nasturtium officinale)
西洋镜	xi	jing	(old) peep show; (fig.) hanky-panky; trickery
西洛赛宾	xi	bin	psilocybin
西游补	xi	bu	one of three Ming dynasty sequels to Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记
西游记	xi	ji	"Journey to the West", a Ming dynasty novel by Wu Cheng'en 吳承恩|吴承恩[Wu2 Cheng2 en1], one of the Four Great Classical Novels of Chinese literature, also known as "Pilgrimage to the West" or "Monkey"
西湖区	xi	qu	Xihu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi; Xihu, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
西澳大利亚	xi	ya	Western Australia, Australian state
西澳大利亚州	xi	zhou	Western Australia, Australian state
西点军校	xi	xiao	West Point; United States Military Academy
西爪哇	xi	wa	West Java, province of Indonesia
西王母	xi	mu	Xi Wangmu, Queen Mother of the West, keeper of the peaches of immortality; popularly known as 王母娘娘
西班牙	xi	ya	Spain
西班牙人	xi	ren	Spaniard; Spanish person
西班牙文	xi	wen	Spanish (language)
西班牙港	xi	gang	Port-of-Spain, capital of Trinidad and Tobago
西班牙语	xi	yu	Spanish language
西瓜虫	xi	chong	pill bug; roly-poly
西番莲	xi	lian	passion flower
西番雅书	xi	shu	Book of Zephaniah
西畴县	xi	xian	Xichou, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
西盟佤族自治县	xi	xian	Ximeng Va Autonomous County, in Pu'er City 普洱市[Pu3 er3 Shi4], Yunnan
西盟县	xi	xian	see 西盟佤族自治縣|西盟佤族自治县[Xi1 meng2 Wa3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
西直门	xi	men	Xizhimen neighborhood of Beijing; the main northwest gate of Beijing
西秀区	xi	qu	Xixiu, a district of Anshun City 安順市|安顺市[An1 shun4 Shi4], Guizhou
西科尔斯基	xi	ji	Sikorski (name); Radosław Sikorski (1950-), Polish conservative politician, foreign minister of Poland from 2007
西米德兰兹	xi	zi	West Midlands, UK county, capital Birmingham 伯明翰[Bo2 ming2 han4]
西米德兰兹郡	xi	jun	West Midlands, UK county, capital Birmingham 伯明翰[Bo2 ming2 han4]
西米露	xi	lu	tapioca pudding; sago pudding
西红柿	xi	shi	tomato
西红脚隼	xi	sun	(bird species of China) red-footed falcon (Falco vespertinus)
西红角鸮	xi	xiao	(bird species of China) Eurasian scops owl (Otus scops)
西绪福斯	xi	si	Sisyphus
西耶那	xi	na	Fiat Siena
西花厅	xi	ting	Xihuating pavilion on west side on Zhongnanhai, home to 周恩來|周恩来
西萨摩亚	xi	ya	Western Samoa
西葫芦	xi	lu	zucchini; courgette; baby marrow
西蓝花	xi	hua	variant of 西蘭花|西兰花[xi1 lan2 hua1]
西藏人	xi	ren	Tibetan (person)
西藏毛腿沙鸡	xi	ji	(bird species of China) Tibetan sandgrouse (Syrrhaptes tibetanus)
西藏獒犬	xi	quan	Tibetan mastiff
西藏自治区	xi	qu	Tibet Autonomous Region, capital Lhasa 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4] (short name 藏[Zang4])
西装革履	xi	lv	dressed in Western-style clothes; impeccably attired
西西弗斯	xi	si	Sisyphus
西西里	xi	li	Sicily; Sicilia (Italian Island)
西西里岛	xi	dao	Sicily
西边儿	xi	r	erhua variant of 西邊|西边[xi1 bian1]
西部片	xi	pian	Western (film)
西里尔	xi	er	Cyril (name); Saint Cyril, 9th century Christian missionary; Cyrillic
西里尔字母	xi	mu	Cyrillic alphabet; Cyrillic letters
西里西亚	xi	ya	Silesia
西门子	xi	zi	Siemens (company name)
西门子公司	xi	si	Siemens AG
西门庆	xi	qing	Ximen Qing, a fictional character in the novels "Jin Ping Mei" 金瓶梅[Jin1 ping2 mei2] and "Water Margin" 水滸傳|水浒传[Shui3 hu3 Zhuan4]
西门町	xi	ding	Ximending (neighborhood in Wanhua district, Taipei)
西门豹	xi	bao	Ximen Bao (active around 422 BC), statesman and hydraulic engineer of Wei 魏國|魏国[Wei4 guo2]
西陵区	xi	qu	Xiling, a district of Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
西陵峡	xi	xia	Xiling Gorge on the Changjiang or Yangtze, the lower of the Three Gorges 三峽|三峡[San1 Xia2]
西雅图	xi	tu	Seattle, city in Washington State
西青区	xi	qu	Xiqing suburban district of Tianjin municipality 天津市[Tian1 jin1 shi4]
西鹌鹑	xi	chun	(bird species of China) common quail (Coturnix coturnix)
西黄鹡鸰	xi	ling	(bird species of China) western yellow wagtail (Motacilla flava)
要不得	yao	de	intolerable; unacceptable
要不是	yao	shi	if it were not for; but for
要不然	yao	ran	otherwise; or else; or
要买人心	yao	xin	variant of 邀買人心|邀买人心[yao1 mai3 ren2 xin1]
要样儿	yao	r	(dialect) to care about appearances; to put on a good front
要死不活	yao	huo	half dead; more dead than alive
要死要活	yao	huo	terribly; awfully; desperately
要西了	yao	le	(coll.) unbearable (Shanghainese)
要言不烦	yao	fan	to explain in simple terms; succinct; concise
要面子	yao	zi	see 愛面子|爱面子[ai4 mian4 zi5]
要风得风要雨得雨	yao	yu	to get whatever one wants; to have everything going one's way
覃塘区	qin	qu	Qintang, a district of Guigang City 貴港市|贵港市[Gui4 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
覆巢之下无完卵	fu	luan	lit. when the nest is upset no egg is left intact (idiom); fig. when one falls in disgrace the whole family is doomed
覆巢无完卵	fu	luan	lit. when the nest overturns no egg remains intact; no member escapes unscathed from a family disaster (idiom)
覆水难收	fu	shou	spilt water is difficult to retrieve (idiom); it's no use crying over spilt milk; what's done is done and can't be reversed
覆盆子	fu	zi	raspberry
覆盖物	fu	wu	mulch
覆盖率	fu	lv	coverage
覆盖面	fu	mian	coverage
见不得	jian	de	not fit to be seen by; should not be exposed to; can't bear to see
见不得人	jian	ren	shameful
见世面	jian	mian	to see the world; to broaden one's horizons
见义勇为	jian	wei	(idiom, from the Analects) (usu. of a passer-by who comes across a critical situation) to step in and help; to take brave or selfless action
见习医师	jian	shi	medical intern
见习医生	jian	sheng	medical intern
见习员	jian	yuan	trainee
见习生	jian	sheng	trainee; probationer
见仁见智	jian	zhi	opinions differ (idiom)
见光死	jian	si	(lit.) to wither in the light of day; (fig.) the bubble bursts as the reality becomes apparent (esp. of a much-anticipated first meeting with sb); (of stocks) just as the favorable news is officially published, the stock price falls
见利忘义	jian	yi	(idiom) to abandon moral principles in the pursuit of profit
见利思义	jian	yi	to see profit and remember morality (idiom); to act ethically; not tempted by riches
见多识广	jian	guang	(idiom) experienced and knowledgeable
见好就收	jian	shou	(idiom) to quit while one is ahead; to know when to stop
见异思迁	jian	qian	to change at once on seeing sth different (idiom); loving fads and novelty; never satisfied with what one has
见微知著	jian	zhu	(idiom) to examine tiny clues to know general trends; to deduce the whole story from small traces
见怪不怪	jian	guai	(idiom) to have seen sth so often that it doesn't seem strange at all; to be well accustomed (to sth)
见招拆招	jian	zhao	to counter every move; to be full of tricks
见景生情	jian	qing	to be touched by a scene; to adapt to the situation
见机行事	jian	shi	see the opportunity and act (idiom); to act according to circumstances; to play it by ear; to use one's discretion
见猎心喜	jian	xi	lit. seeing others go hunting, one is excited by memories of the thrill of the hunt (idiom); fig. seeing others do what one loves to do, one is inspired to try it again
见真章	jian	zhang	to see how sb or sth performs when it comes to the crunch; to find out what sb is really made of; to witness true ability or worth revealed under pressure
见票即付	jian	fu	payable at sight; payable to bearer
见缝就钻	jian	zuan	lit. to squeeze into every crack (idiom); fig. to make the most of every opportunity
见缝插针	jian	zhen	lit. to see a gap and stick in a needle (idiom); fig. to make use of every second and every inch
见色忘义	jian	yi	to forget loyalty when in love; hoes before bros
见色忘友	jian	you	to neglect one's friends when smitten with a new love
见血封喉树	jian	shu	Antiaris toxicaria (botany)
见证人	jian	ren	eyewitness (to an incident); witness (to a legal transaction)
见诸行动	jian	dong	to translate sth into action; to put sth into action
见财起意	jian	yi	seeing riches provokes evil designs
见贤思齐	jian	qi	see a worthy, think to imitate (idiom, from Analects); emulate the virtuous; Follow the example of a virtuous and wise teacher.
见钱眼开	jian	kai	to open one's eyes wide at the sight of profit (idiom); thinking of nothing but personal gain; money-grubbing
见阎王	jian	wang	(coll.) to meet one's maker; to kick the bucket; to die
见面会	jian	hui	meet and greet; fan meeting
见面礼	jian	li	gift given to sb when meeting them for the first time
见风使帆	jian	fan	lit. see the wind and set your sails (idiom); fig. to act pragmatically; to be flexible and take advantage of the situation
见风使舵	jian	duo	lit. see the wind and set the helm (idiom); fig. to act pragmatically; to be flexible and take advantage of the situation
见风是雨	jian	yu	lit. see the wind and assume it will rain (idiom); fig. gullible; to believe whatever people suggest
见风转舵	jian	duo	lit. see the wind and set the helm (idiom); fig. to act pragmatically; to be flexible and take advantage of the situation
见马克思	jian	si	to die; lit. to visit Marx; to pass away
观世音	guan	yin	Guanyin, the Bodhisattva of Compassion or Goddess of Mercy (Sanskrit Avalokiteśvara)
观世音菩萨	guan	sa	Guanyin, the Bodhisattva of Compassion or Goddess of Mercy (Sanskrit Avalokiteśvara)
观众席	guan	xi	audience seating area
观光区	guan	qu	tourist region; sightseeing area
观光客	guan	ke	tourist
观后感	guan	gan	impression or feeling after visiting or watching (movies, museums etc)
观后镜	guan	jing	mirror showing a view to one's rear (including rearview mirror, side-view mirror, baby view mirror etc)
观察人士	guan	shi	observer
观察力	guan	li	power of observation; perception
观察员	guan	yuan	observer
观察哨	guan	shao	sentry post
观察家	guan	jia	observer (esp. one who analyzes social or political affairs)
观察者	guan	zhe	observer
观山湖	guan	hu	see 觀山湖區|观山湖区[Guan1 shan1 hu2 Qu1]
观山湖区	guan	qu	Guanshanhu, a district of Guiyang City 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4], Guizhou
观护所	guan	suo	probation office
观星台	guan	tai	astronomical observatory (old)
观景台	guan	tai	lookout; viewing platform; observation deck
观测卫星	guan	xing	observation satellite
观测台	guan	tai	observatory
观测员	guan	yuan	observer; spotter
观测者	guan	zhe	observer
观澜湖	guan	hu	Mission Hills Group (Chinese hospitality, sports and leisure company)
观落阴	guan	yin	a ritual whereby the living soul is brought to the nether world for a spiritual journey
观衅伺隙	guan	xi	lit. to look for holes, and observe gaps (idiom); fig. to search out one's opponent's weak points; to look for the Achilles' heel
观象台	guan	tai	observatory; observation platform
观音菩萨	guan	sa	Guanyin, the Bodhisattva of Compassion or Goddess of Mercy (Sanskrit Avalokiteśvara)
规划人员	gui	yuan	planner
规划局	gui	ju	planning department
规则化	gui	hua	regularity
规则性	gui	xing	regularity
规律性	gui	xing	regular
规模经济	gui	ji	economies of scale
规矩准绳	gui	sheng	compasses, set square, spirit level and plumbline (idiom); fig. established standard; norms; criteria
规矩绳墨	gui	mo	compasses, set square and straight line marker (idiom); fig. established standard; norms; criteria
规章制度	gui	du	rules and regulations
规范化	gui	hua	to standardize; standardization
规范性	gui	xing	normal; standard
规范理论	gui	lun	Standard Model (of particle physics)
规行矩步	gui	bu	to follow the compass and go with the set square (idiom); to follow the rules inflexibly; to act according to convention
觅食行为	mi	wei	foraging
视为畏途	shi	tu	to view as dangerous (idiom); afraid to do sth
视为知己	shi	ji	to consider sb as close friend (idiom); to take into one's confidence
视亮度	shi	du	apparent brightness (astronomy)
视力测定法	shi	fa	optometry; eyesight testing
视力表	shi	biao	eye chart (used by optician)
视同儿戏	shi	xi	to regard sth as a plaything (idiom); to consider unimportant; to view as trifling
视同己出	shi	chu	see 視如己出|视如己出[shi4 ru2 ji3 chu1]
视同手足	shi	zu	to regard sb as a brother (idiom)
视听材料	shi	liao	evidence of material seen and heard; oral testimony
视如土芥	shi	jie	to regard as useless; to view as no better than weeds
视如寇仇	shi	chou	to regard as an enemy
视如己出	shi	chu	to regard someone else's child as one's own
视如敝屣	shi	xi	(lit.) to view as worn-out shoes (idiom); (fig.) to consider to be worthless
视如粪土	shi	tu	to look upon as dirt; considered worthless
视微知著	shi	zhu	see 見微知著|见微知著[jian4 wei1 zhi1 zhu4]
视损伤	shi	shang	visual impairment
视星等	shi	deng	(astronomy) apparent magnitude
视死如归	shi	gui	to view death as a return home; to not be afraid of dying; to face death with equanimity (idiom)
视神经	shi	jing	optic nerve
视神经乳头	shi	tou	optic disk (terminal of the optic nerve on the retina)
视神经盘	shi	pan	optic disk (terminal of the optic nerve on the retina)
视网膜	shi	mo	retina
视而不见	shi	jian	(idiom) to turn a blind eye to; to ignore
视若己出	shi	chu	see 視如己出|视如己出[shi4 ru2 ji3 chu1]
视若无睹	shi	du	to turn a blind eye to
视若路人	shi	ren	to view as strangers
视觉方言	shi	yan	(linguistics) eye dialect
视错觉	shi	jue	optical illusion
视频会议	shi	yi	videoconferencing; videoconference
视频点播	shi	bo	video on demand (VOD)
觑机会	qu	hui	to watch for an opportunity
觑着眼	qu	yan	to narrow one's eyes and gaze at something with great attention
觑觑眼	qu	yan	myopia; nearsightedness; shortsightedness
角分符号	jiao	hao	prime symbol (′) (math., linguistics etc)
角动量	jiao	liang	angular momentum
角化病	jiao	bing	(medicine) keratosis
角嘴海雀	jiao	que	(bird species of China) rhinoceros auklet (Cerorhinca monocerata)
角宿一	jiao	yi	(astronomy) Spica
角平分线	jiao	xian	angle bisector
角弓反张	jiao	zhang	opitoshtonous (med.), muscular spasm of the body associated with tetanus and meningitis
角斗场	jue	chang	wrestling ring
角斗士	jiao	shi	gladiator
角柱体	jiao	ti	prism (math.)
角百灵	jiao	ling	(bird species of China) horned lark (Eremophila alpestris)
角磨机	jiao	ji	angle grinder
角秒符号	jiao	hao	double prime symbol (″) (math., linguistics etc)
角膜接触镜	jiao	jing	contact lens
角膜炎	jiao	yan	keratitis (inflammation of the cornea)
角色扮演游戏	jue	xi	role-playing game (RPG)
角蛋白	jiao	bai	keratin (protein forming nails and feathers etc)
角质层	jiao	ceng	stratum corneum (outermost layer of the skin)
角质素	jiao	su	keratin
角速度	jiao	du	angular velocity
角闪石	jiao	shi	hornblende (rock-forming mineral, type of amphibole)
角频率	jiao	lv	angular frequency
解像力	jie	li	resolving power (of a lens etc)
解像度	jie	du	resolution (of images, monitors, scanners etc)
解决办法	jie	fa	solution; method to settle an issue
解剖刀	jie	dao	scalpel
解剖学	jie	xue	anatomy
解剖室	jie	shi	a dissecting room
解剖麻雀	jie	que	to dissect a sparrow; (fig.) to examine a typical case as the basis for making a generalization
解压缩	jie	suo	to decompress; decompression (esp. computer)
解大手	jie	shou	(coll.) to defecate
解小手	jie	shou	(coll.) to urinate
解放军	jie	jun	People's Liberation Army (PRC armed forces) (abbr. for 中國人民解放軍|中国人民解放军[Zhong1 guo2 Ren2 min2 Jie3 fang4 jun1])
解放区	jie	qu	Jiefang, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
解放后	jie	hou	after liberation (i.e. after the Communist's victory); after the establishment of PRC in 1949
解放战争	jie	zheng	War of Liberation (1945-49), after which the Communists 共產黨武裝|共产党武装 under Mao Zedong 毛澤東|毛泽东 took over from the Nationalists 國民政府|国民政府 under Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石
解放日	jie	ri	Liberation Day; cf Japan's surrender on 15th August 1945, celebrated as Liberation Day in Korea
解放日报	jie	bao	Liberation Daily, newspaper published in Shanghai
解放运动	jie	dong	liberation movement
解析几何	jie	he	analytic geometry; coordinate geometry
解析几何学	jie	xue	analytic geometry; coordinate geometry
解析函数	jie	shu	(math.) an analytic function (of a complex variable)
解析函数论	jie	lun	(math.) complex analytic function theory
解析度	jie	du	(Tw) resolution (of an image, monitor etc)
解毒剂	jie	ji	antidote
解毒药	jie	yao	antidote
解民倒悬	jie	xuan	lit. to rescue the people from hanging upside down (idiom, from Mencius); to save the people from dire straits
解深密经	jie	jing	Sandhinir mokcana vyuha sutra, a yogic text on awareness and meditation, translated as the Wisdom of Buddha
解理方向	jie	xiang	direction of cleavage (e.g. of slate)
解理面	jie	mian	cleavage plane (e.g. of slate)
解甲归田	jie	tian	to remove armor and return to the farm; to return to civilian life
解疑释惑	jie	huo	(idiom) to solve a problem; to resolve a difficult issue
解痉剂	xie	ji	antispasmodic (pharm.)
解百纳	jie	na	Cabernet (grape type)
解码器	jie	qi	decoder
解离性人格疾患	jie	huan	dissociative identity disorder; multiple personality disorder
解说员	jie	yuan	commentator
解说词	jie	ci	commentary (for a film etc); caption (for a photo etc)
解酸药	jie	yao	antacid
解释器	jie	qi	interpreter (computing)
解释执行	jie	xing	interpreted (computer)
解铃系铃	jie	ling	see 解鈴還須繫鈴人|解铃还须系铃人[jie3 ling2 hai2 xu1 xi4 ling2 ren2]
解铃还需系铃人	jie	ren	variant of 解鈴還須繫鈴人|解铃还须系铃人[jie3 ling2 hai2 xu1 xi4 ling2 ren2]
解铃还须系铃人	jie	ren	lit. whoever hung the bell on the tiger's neck must untie it (idiom); fig. whoever started the trouble should end it
觥筹交错	gong	cuo	wine goblets and gambling chips lie intertwined; to drink and gamble together in a large group (idiom); a big (drinking) party
触发器	chu	qi	flip-flop (electronics)
触发引信	chu	xin	an impact detonator
触发清单	chu	dan	trigger list
触地得分	chu	fen	to score a try (sports); to score a touchdown
触手可及	chu	ji	within reach
触手可得	chu	de	within reach
触技曲	chu	qu	toccata
触控屏	chu	ping	touchscreen
触控屏幕	chu	mu	touchscreen
触控式萤幕	chu	mu	touchscreen
触控板	chu	ban	(Tw) (computing) touchpad
触控点	chu	dian	pointing stick (for notebook computer)
触控笔	chu	bi	(computing) stylus pen
触控萤幕	chu	mu	touchscreen; touch panel
触摸屏	chu	ping	touchscreen
触摸屏幕	chu	mu	touchscreen
触摸板	chu	ban	touchpad; trackpad
触斗蛮争	chu	zheng	constant bickering and fighting (idiom); constantly at each other's throats; struggle for personal gain
触景伤情	chu	qing	circumstances that evoke mixed feelings (idiom)
触景生情	chu	qing	scene which recalls past memories (idiom); evocative of the past; reminiscent
触楣头	chu	tou	variant of 觸霉頭|触霉头[chu4 mei2 tou2]
触目伤心	chu	xin	distressing sight (idiom)
触目惊心	chu	xin	lit. shocks the eye, astonishes the heart (idiom); shocking; horrible to see; a ghastly sight
触类旁通	chu	tong	to comprehend (new things) by analogy
触霉头	chu	tou	to cause sth unfortunate to happen (to oneself or sb else); to do sth inauspicious; to have a stroke of bad luck
言下之意	yan	yi	implication
言不及义	yan	yi	to talk nonsense (idiom); frivolous talk
言不可传	yan	chuan	impossible to put into words; inexpressible
言不尽意	yan	yi	(conventional letter ending) words cannot fully express what is in my heart (idiom)
言不由衷	yan	zhong	to say sth without meaning it (idiom); to speak tongue in cheek; saying one thing but meaning sth different
言为心声	yan	sheng	one's words reflect one's thinking (idiom)
言之凿凿	yan	zao	(idiom) to speak with conviction
言之无物	yan	wu	(of a writing etc) to have no substance (idiom); to carry no weight
言之有物	yan	wu	(of one's words) to have substance
言传身教	yan	jiao	to teach by words and example (idiom)
言听计从	yan	cong	to see, hear and obey (idiom); to take advice; to take sb at his word
言外之意	yan	yi	(idiom) unspoken implication; the actual meaning of what was said
言多必失	yan	shi	if you say too much, you're bound to slip up at some point (idiom)
言多语失	yan	shi	see 言多必失[yan2 duo1 bi4 shi1]
言字旁	yan	pang	name of "speech" or "words" radical in Chinese characters (Kangxi radical 149); see also 訁|讠[yan2]
言归于好	yan	hao	to become reconciled; to bury the hatchet
言归正传	yan	zhuan	to return to the topic (idiom); to get back to the main point
言必信行必果	yan	guo	one must be a man of his word and resolute in his work (proverb)
言情小说	yan	shuo	romance novel; romantic fiction
言教不如身教	yan	jiao	Explaining in words is not as good as teaching by example (idiom). Action speaks louder than words.
言犹在耳	yan	er	words still ringing in one's ears (idiom)
言简意赅	yan	gai	concise and comprehensive (idiom)
言者无意听者有心	yan	xin	to take a casual remark to heart (idiom)
言者无罪闻者足戒	yan	jie	don't blame the speaker, take note of his warning (idiom); an exhortation to speak one's mind without fear of reprisals, and with the expectation of being taken seriously
言而无信	yan	xin	(idiom) untrustworthy; not true to one's word
言而有信	yan	xin	to speak and keep one's promise (idiom); as good as one's word
言行一致	yan	zhi	(idiom) one's actions are in keeping with what one says
言行不一	yan	yi	(idiom) to say one thing and do another
言行不符	yan	fu	(idiom) to say one thing and do another
言行若一	yan	yi	(idiom) one's actions are in keeping with what one says
言论机关	yan	guan	the press; the media
言论界	yan	jie	the press; the media
言论自由	yan	you	freedom of speech
言语缺陷	yan	xian	speech defect
言谈林薮	yan	sou	articulate in speech (idiom); eloquent
言过其实	yan	shi	(idiom) to exaggerate; to overstate the facts
言近旨远	yan	yuan	simple words with a profound meaning (idiom)
詹天佑	zhan	you	Zhan Tianyou (1861-1919), Chinese railroad engineer
詹姆斯	zhan	si	James (name); LeBron James (1984-), NBA player
詹江布尔	zhan	er	Janjanbureh river and city in Gambia
誓不两立	shi	li	the two cannot exist together (idiom); irreconcilable differences; incompatible standpoints
誓不反悔	shi	hui	to vow not to break one's promise
誓死不从	shi	cong	to vow to die rather than obey (idiom)
誓死不降	shi	xiang	to vow to fight to the death
警世通言	jing	yan	Stories to Caution the World, vernacular short stories by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2] published in 1624
警备区	jing	qu	garrison area; command
警察厅	jing	ting	National Police Agency (Japan)
警察局	jing	ju	police station; police department; police headquarters
警察署	jing	shu	police station
警惕性	jing	xing	vigilance; alertness
警戒线	jing	xian	police cordon; alert level
警报器	jing	qi	siren
警政署	jing	shu	National Police Agency (Taiwan); abbr. for 內政部警政署|内政部警政署[Nei4 zheng4 bu4 Jing3 zheng4 shu3]
譬如说	pi	shuo	for example
计件工资	ji	zi	piece rate wage; remuneration based on one's output; opposite: time rate wage 計時工資|计时工资[ji4 shi2 gong1 zi1]
计价器	ji	qi	fare meter; taximeter
计分卡	ji	ka	scorecard
计分环	ji	huan	scoring ring (on shooting target)
计划性报废	ji	fei	planned obsolescence
计划报废	ji	fei	planned obsolescence
计划生育	ji	yu	family planning
计划经济	ji	ji	planned economy
计数器	ji	qi	counter; register
计数法	ji	fa	calculation; reckoning
计数率仪	ji	yi	ratemeter
计数管	ji	guan	counter
计时器	ji	qi	timer
计时工资	ji	zi	payment by the hour; time-rate wages (opposite: piece-rate wage 計件工資|计件工资[ji4 jian4 gong1 zi1])
计时比赛	ji	sai	time trial (e.g. in cycle race); timed race; competition against the clock
计时法	ji	fa	time reckoning
计时炸弹	ji	dan	time bomb
计时赛	ji	sai	time trial (e.g. in cycle race); timed race; competition against the clock
计步器	ji	qi	pedometer
计程车	ji	che	(Tw) taxi; cab
计算器	ji	qi	calculator; calculating machine
计算复杂性	ji	xing	computational complexity (math.)
计算尺	ji	chi	slide rule
计算摄影	ji	ying	computational photography
计算数学	ji	xue	computational mathematics; numerical mathematics
计算机	ji	ji	computer; (Tw) calculator; CL:臺|台[tai2]
计算机制图	ji	tu	computer graphics
计算机动画	ji	hua	computer animation
计算机可读	ji	du	computer-readable; machine-readable
计算机工业	ji	ye	computer industry
计算机模拟	ji	ni	computer simulation
计算机科学	ji	xue	computer science
计算机科学家	ji	jia	computer scientist
计算机辅助设计	ji	ji	CAD computer-aided design
计算机集成制造	ji	zao	computer-integrated manufacturing (CIM)
计量制	ji	zhi	system of weights and measures
计量棒	ji	bang	measuring rod; dipstick
订书机	ding	ji	stapler; CL:臺|台[tai2]
订书针	ding	zhen	staple
订书钉	ding	ding	staple (stationery)
订单号	ding	hao	order number
订购者	ding	zhe	subscriber
认人儿	ren	r	erhua variant of 認人|认人[ren4 ren2]
认死扣儿	ren	r	stubborn
认死理	ren	li	obstinate; opinionated
认死理儿	ren	r	erhua variant of 認死理|认死理[ren4 si3 li3]
认知失调	ren	tiao	cognitive dissonance
认知心理学	ren	xue	cognitive psychology
认知战	ren	zhan	cognitive warfare
认知神经心理学	ren	xue	cognitive neuropsychology
认缴资本	ren	ben	subscribed capital (finance)
认罪协商	ren	shang	plea bargain
认脚鞋	ren	xie	a left-and-right pair of shoes (distinguished from 直腳鞋|直脚鞋[zhi2 jiao3 xie2], shoes that can be worn on either foot)
认识不能	ren	neng	agnosia
认识论	ren	lun	epistemology (in philosophy, the theory of how we know things)
认贼作父	ren	fu	lit. to acknowledge the bandit as one's father (idiom); fig. a complete betrayal; to sell oneself to the enemy
认鸡作凤	ren	feng	(lit.) to mistake a chicken for a phoenix (idiom); (fig.) to overestimate sth's worth
讨人厌	tao	yan	horrid
讨人喜欢	tao	huan	to attract people's affection; charming; delightful
讨人嫌	tao	xian	unpleasant; disagreeable
讨价还价	tao	jia	to haggle over price; to bargain
讨便宜	tao	yi	to look for a bargain; to seek advantage; to try to gain at expense of others
讨厌鬼	tao	gui	disgusting person; slob
讨好卖乖	tao	guai	to curry favor by showing obeisance (idiom)
讨底儿	tao	r	erhua variant of 討底|讨底[tao3 di3]
讨生活	tao	huo	to eke out a living; to live from hand to mouth; to drift aimlessly
讨论会	tao	hui	symposium; discussion forum
讨论区	tao	qu	forum (esp. online); discussion area; feedback
讨论班	tao	ban	seminar; workshop
让人羡慕	rang	mu	enviable; to be admired
让胡路	rang	lu	see 讓胡路區|让胡路区[Rang4 hu2 lu4 Qu1]
让胡路区	rang	qu	Ranghulu, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
训兽术	xun	shu	animal training; taming wild beast (e.g. lion-taming)
训导处	xun	chu	(Tw) dean of students office; disciplinary office
训导职务	xun	wu	(Christianity) a preaching ministry
训民正音	xun	yin	Korean text HunMin JongUm promulgated by Sejong Daewang in 1418 to introduce hangeul
训练场	xun	chang	training ground
训练者	xun	zhe	trainer
训练营	xun	ying	training camp
训诂学	xun	xue	study of classic texts, including interpretation, glossaries and commentaries
议事日程	yi	cheng	agenda
议会制	yi	zhi	parliamentary system
议定书	yi	shu	protocol; treaty
议论纷纷	yi	fen	to discuss spiritedly (idiom); tongues are wagging
议论纷错	yi	cuo	see 議論紛紛|议论纷纷[yi4 lun4 fen1 fen1]
讯框中继	xun	ji	frame relay (telecommunications)
记不住	ji	zhu	can't remember
记事册	ji	ce	notebook containing a record
记事本	ji	ben	notebook; paper notepad; laptop computer
记事簿	ji	bu	a memo book (recording events)
记叙文	ji	wen	narrative writing; written narration
记号笔	ji	bi	(permanent) marker (pen)
记在心里	ji	li	to keep in mind; to store in one's heart; to remember perfectly
记工员	ji	yuan	work-point recorder
记帐员	ji	yuan	bookkeeper
记录员	ji	yuan	recorder
记录器	ji	qi	recorder
记录片	ji	pian	variant of 紀錄片|纪录片[ji4 lu4 pian4]
记忆体	ji	ti	(Tw) (computer) memory
记忆力	ji	li	faculty of memory; ability to remember
记忆化	ji	hua	memoization (computing)
记忆卡	ji	ka	memory card
记忆器	ji	qi	memristor (memory transistor)
记忆广度	ji	du	memory span
记忆棒	ji	bang	(Sony) memory stick
记忆犹新	ji	xin	to remain fresh in one's memory (idiom)
记忆电路	ji	lu	memory circuit
记者会	ji	hui	press conference
记者招待会	ji	hui	press conference
记者站	ji	zhan	correspondent post; correspondent station
记谱法	ji	fa	method of music notation
讲不通	jiang	tong	it does not make sense
讲义气	jiang	qi	to be loyal (to one's friends); to value loyalty
讲习会	jiang	hui	discussion forum; seminar; assembly
讲习班	jiang	ban	instructional workshop
讲解员	jiang	yuan	guide
讲闲话	jiang	hua	to gossip; to make unfavorable comments
讳疾忌医	hui	yi	hiding a sickness for fear of treatment (idiom); fig. concealing a fault to avoid criticism; to keep one's shortcomings secret; to refuse to listen to advice
讳莫如深	hui	shen	(idiom) to steadfastly refuse to discuss the matter; to treat it as an untouchable subject
讷河市	ne	shi	Nehe, a county-level city in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
许下愿心	xu	xin	to express a wish (to a deity)
许仲琳	xu	lin	Xu Zhonglin or Chen Zhonglin 陳仲琳|陈仲琳[Chen2 Zhong4 lin2] (c. 1567-c. 1620), Ming novelist, to whom the fantasy novel Investiture of the Gods 封神演義|封神演义[Feng1 shen2 Yan3 yi4] is attributed, together with Lu Xixing 陸西星|陆西星[Lu4 Xi1 xing1]
许信良	xu	liang	Hsu Hsin-liang (1941-), Taiwanese politician
许可协议	xu	yi	licensing agreement (for intellectual property)
许可证	xu	zheng	license; authorization; permit
许地山	xu	shan	Xu Dishan (1893-1941), journalist, publisher and novelist
许廑父	xu	fu	Xu Qinfu (1891-1953), journalist and writer
许愿井	xu	jing	wishing well
许愿池	xu	chi	wishing pond
许旺细胞	xu	bao	Schwann cell (support axon of nerve cell); neurolemmocyte
许昌市	xu	shi	Xuchang, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
许海峰	xu	feng	Xu Haifeng (1957-), PRC sharpshooter, 50m pistol gold medalist at Los Angeles 1984 Olympics
论功封赏	lun	shang	see 論功行賞|论功行赏[lun4 gong1 xing2 shang3]
论功行赏	lun	shang	(idiom) to assess merit and confer rewards
论坛报	lun	bao	Tribune (in newspaper names)
论理学	lun	xue	logic
论长道短	lun	duan	lit. to discuss sb's merits and demerits (idiom); to gossip
设圈套	she	tao	to scam; to set a trap; to set up a scheme to defraud people
设得兰群岛	she	dao	Shetland Islands
设计师	she	shi	designer; architect
设计程序	she	xu	design process
设计者	she	zhe	designer; architect (of a project)
设计规范	she	fan	design norm; planning regulations
设身处地	she	di	to put oneself in sb else's shoes
访亲问友	fang	you	to visit friends and relations (idiom)
访师求学	fang	xue	to seek a teacher desiring to study
访惠聚	fang	ju	program of visiting Muslim households in Xinjiang to monitor them, begun in 2014 (abbr. for 訪民情、惠民生、聚民心|访民情、惠民生、聚民心[fang3 min2 qing2 , hui4 min2 sheng1 , ju4 min2 xin1])
访贫问苦	fang	ku	to visit the poor and ask about their suffering (idiom)
访问者	fang	zhe	interviewer
访问量	fang	liang	(web counter) hits
证交所	zheng	suo	stock exchange
证人席	zheng	xi	witness stand or box
证件照	zheng	zhao	ID photo
证券交易所	zheng	suo	stock exchange
证券代销	zheng	xiao	proxy sale of securities
证券公司	zheng	si	securities company; share company
证券化率	zheng	lv	securitization ratio
证券商	zheng	shang	share dealer; broker
证券委	zheng	wei	securities commission; abbr. for 證券委員會|证券委员会
证券委员会	zheng	hui	securities commission (of the State Council)
证券市场	zheng	chang	financial market
证券柜台买卖中心	zheng	xin	GreTai Securities Market (GTSM)
证券经纪人	zheng	ren	stockbroker
证券经营	zheng	ying	share dealing; brokering
证券行	zheng	hang	(HK, Tw) securities house; brokerage firm
证婚人	zheng	ren	wedding witness
证实礼	zheng	li	confirmation
证明书	zheng	shu	certificate
证明力	zheng	li	probative value; strength of evidence in legal proof; relevance
证明完毕	zheng	bi	(math.) end of proof; QED (quod erat demonstrandum)
证明文件	zheng	jian	identification document; documentary proof
证监会	zheng	hui	China Securities Regulatory Commission (CSRC) (abbr. for 中國證券監督管理委員會|中国证券监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Zheng4 quan4 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4])
评价分类	ping	lei	to assess and classify
评价量规	ping	gui	rubric (i.e. a guide listing specific criteria for grading)
评头品足	ping	zu	to make idle remarks about a woman's appearance (idiom)
评头论足	ping	zu	lit. to assess the head and discuss the feet (idiom); minute criticism of a woman's appearance; fig. to find fault in minor details; to remark upon a person's appearance
评委会	ping	hui	judging panel; panel of judges; review committee (abbr. for 評審委員會|评审委员会[ping2 shen3 wei3 yuan2 hui4])
评审团	ping	tuan	jury; panel of judges
评审团特别奖	ping	jiang	Special Jury Prize, award at the Venice Film Festival
评议会	ping	hui	council
评论区	ping	qu	comments section
评论员	ping	yuan	commentator
评论家	ping	jia	critic; reviewer
识别号	shi	hao	identifier
识别码	shi	ma	identifier
识别证	shi	zheng	ID badge (on a lanyard etc) (Tw)
识多才广	shi	guang	knowledgeable and versatile
识字率	shi	lv	literacy rate
识微知著	shi	zhu	see 見微知著|见微知著[jian4 wei1 zhi1 zhu4]
识才尊贤	shi	xian	to recognize talent and have great respect for it
识文断字	shi	zi	(idiom) able to read; literate
识时务	shi	wu	to have a clear view of things; to adapt to circumstances
识时务者为俊杰	shi	jie	(idiom) a wise person adapts to changing circumstances
识时达务	shi	wu	understanding; to know what's up
识时通变	shi	bian	understanding and adaptable
识破机关	shi	guan	to see through a trick
识荆恨晚	shi	wan	It is a great honor to meet you and I regret it is not sooner
识途老马	shi	ma	lit. an old horse knows the way home (idiom); fig. in difficulty, trust an experience colleague
诈骗罪	zha	zui	fraud
诉讼中	su	zhong	pendente lite; during litigation
诉讼法	su	fa	procedural law
诉诸公论	su	lun	to appeal to the public
词不达意	ci	yi	words do not convey the meaning; poorly expressed; senseless
词人墨客	ci	ke	(idiom) writer; wordsmith
词典学	ci	xue	lexicography
词性标注	ci	zhu	part-of-speech tagging
词根语	ci	yu	(linguistics) analytic language
词汇学	ci	xue	lexicology (linguistics)
词约指明	ci	ming	concise but unambiguous (idiom)
词讼费	ci	fei	legal fees; costs (of a lawsuit)
词项逻辑	ci	ji	(philosophy) term logic; syllogistic logic
诏安县	zhao	xian	Zhao'an, a county in Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
译入语	yi	yu	target language (for translation)
译出语	yi	yu	source language (for translation)
译意风	yi	feng	simultaneous interpretation facilities (loanword from "earphone")
译码器	yi	qi	decoder
试一试	shi	shi	to have a try
试吃品	shi	pin	food sample
试听带	shi	dai	demo recording (music)
试手儿	shi	r	erhua variant of 試手|试手[shi4 shou3]
试探性	shi	xing	exploratory; tentative
试水温	shi	wen	to test the waters
试用品	shi	pin	trial product
试用期	shi	qi	trial period; probationary period
试用本	shi	ben	inspection copy (of a textbook etc); trial edition
试算表	shi	biao	spreadsheet; trial balance (accountancy)
试管受孕	shi	yun	in vitro fertilisation; test tube fertilisation
试管婴儿	shi	er	test tube baby
试药族	shi	zu	people who participate in clinical trials
试衣间	shi	jian	fitting room
试试看	shi	kan	to give it a try
试金石	shi	shi	touchstone; fig. test that sth is genuine
试镜头	shi	tou	screen test
试飞员	shi	yuan	test pilot
试验场	shi	chang	experimental station
试验性	shi	xing	experimental
试验间	shi	jian	test room
诗情画意	shi	yi	picturesque charm; idyllic appeal; poetic grace
诚心实意	cheng	yi	earnestly and sincerely (idiom); with all sincerity
诚心所愿	cheng	yuan	so be it; amen
诚心正意	cheng	yi	see 誠心誠意|诚心诚意[cheng2 xin1 cheng2 yi4]
诚心诚意	cheng	yi	earnestly and sincerely (idiom); with all sincerity
诚惶诚恐	cheng	kong	in fear and trepidation (idiom); in reverence before your majesty (court formula of humility)
诛九族	zhu	zu	to execute all of sb's relatives (as punishment) (old)
诛尽杀绝	zhu	jue	to wipe out; to exterminate
诛心之论	zhu	lun	a devastating criticism; to expose hidden motives
诛暴讨逆	zhu	ni	to wipe out the villains (e.g. insurgents, or people of another race)
诛求无厌	zhu	yan	(idiom) to relentlessly make excessive demands
诛求无已	zhu	yi	to make endless exorbitant demands
诛锄异己	zhu	ji	to wipe out dissenters; to exterminate those who disagree
话不投机	hua	ji	(idiom) not on the same wavelength; unable to have a congenial conversation; to not see eye to eye
话不投机半句多	hua	duo	(idiom) when views are irreconcilable, it's a waste of breath to continue discussion
话中有刺	hua	ci	one's words carry barbs; one's remarks are sarcastic
话中有话	hua	hua	one's words carry an implicit meaning
话事人	hua	ren	(coll.) (from Cantonese) the boss; the big cheese; the top dog
话到嘴边	hua	bian	to be on the verge of saying what is on one's mind
话到嘴边留三分	hua	fen	A still tongue makes a wise head. (idiom)
话务员	hua	yuan	phone operator
话匣子	hua	zi	phonograph or radio (old term); chatterbox; talkative person
话又说回来	hua	lai	(but) then again; (but) on the other hand
话茬儿	hua	r	erhua variant of 話茬|话茬[hua4 cha2]
话虽如此	hua	ci	be that as it may
话语权	hua	quan	ability to have one's say and be listened to; influence; clout
话说回来	hua	lai	(but) then again; (but) on the other hand
话里套话	hua	hua	to use seemingly innocent conversation topics as a pretext to glean information; to touch upon other matters not central to the topic being discussed
话里有话	hua	hua	one's words carry an implicit meaning
话锋一转	hua	zhuan	to change the direction or tone of a conversation
诠释学	quan	xue	hermeneutics
诠释资料	quan	liao	metadata
诡计多端	gui	duan	deceitful in many ways (idiom); wily and mischievous; full of craft and cunning
诡谲多变	gui	bian	(idiom) unpredictable; ever-changing
诡辩家	gui	jia	sophist; one who relies on specious arguments
诡辩术	gui	shu	specious arguments; sophistry
询根问底	xun	di	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
询问台	xun	tai	information desk
详尽无遗	xiang	yi	exhaustive; thorough
语义分析	yu	xi	semantic analysis
语义分类	yu	lei	semantic categorization
语义学	yu	xue	semantics
语义空间	yu	jian	semantic space
语助词	yu	ci	auxiliary word
语惊四座	yu	zuo	to make a remark that startles everyone present (idiom); (of a remark) startling
语意性	yu	xing	semantic
语数外	yu	wai	Chinese, math & English (school subjects)
语料库	yu	ku	corpus
语无伦次	yu	ci	incoherent speech; to talk without rhyme or reason (idiom)
语气助词	yu	ci	modal particle
语气词	yu	ci	modal particle
语法糖	yu	tang	(computing) syntactic sugar
语焉不详	yu	xiang	to mention sth without elaborating (idiom); not giving details
语用学	yu	xue	pragmatics
语言匮乏	yu	fa	language deficit (linguistics)
语言学	yu	xue	linguistics
语言学家	yu	jia	linguist
语言实验室	yu	shi	language laboratory
语言能力	yu	li	verbal ability
语言训练	yu	lian	language training
语言障碍	yu	ai	language barrier; speech impediment
语重心长	yu	chang	meaningful and heartfelt words (idiom); sincere and earnest wishes
语音信号	yu	hao	voice signal
语音信箱	yu	xiang	voice mailbox; voicemail
语音助手	yu	shou	voice assistant
语音合成	yu	cheng	speech synthesis
语音学	yu	xue	phonetics
语音意识	yu	shi	phonetic awareness
语音指令	yu	ling	speech command (for computer speech recognition)
语音识别	yu	bie	speech recognition
误上贼船	wu	chuan	lit. to mistakenly board a pirate ship; to embark on a hopeless adventure
误人子弟	wu	di	(of a lazy or incompetent teacher) to hamper students' progress; (of media) to propagate errors; to lead people astray
误入歧途	wu	tu	to take a wrong step in life (idiom); to go astray
误判案	wu	an	miscarriage of justice
误打误撞	wu	zhuang	accidentally; to act before thinking
诱变剂	you	ji	mutagen
诱食剂	you	ji	feeding attractant; phagostimulant
诲人不倦	hui	juan	instructing with tireless zeal (idiom, from Analects)
诲淫性	hui	xing	licentious
诲淫诲盗	hui	dao	to promote sex and violence; to stir up lust and covetousness
说一不二	shuo	er	to say one and mean just that (idiom); to keep one's word
说一千道一万	shuo	wan	when all is said and done; at the end of the day
说七说八	shuo	ba	after all
说三道四	shuo	si	to make thoughtless remarks (idiom); to criticize; gossip
说不上	shuo	shang	to be unable to say or tell; to not be worth mentioning
说不准	shuo	zhun	unable to say; can't say precisely
说不出	shuo	chu	unable to say
说不出话来	shuo	lai	speechless
说不定	shuo	ding	can't say for sure; maybe
说不得	shuo	de	to be unmentionable; be unspeakable; must
说不过去	shuo	qu	cannot be justified; inexcusable
说不通	shuo	tong	it does not make sense
说东道西	shuo	xi	to chat about this and that; to talk about anything and everything
说也奇怪	shuo	guai	strangely enough; oddly enough; strange to say
说了算	shuo	suan	to have the final say; to be the one in charge
说你胖你就喘	shuo	chuan	lit. when someone tells you you're fat, you pant (as if you were actually fat) (idiom); fig. Hey! I pay you a compliment, and you start bragging! (typically jocular and teasing); flattery, like perfume, should be smelled, not swallowed
说到做到	shuo	dao	to be as good as one's word (idiom); to keep one's promise
说到底	shuo	di	in the final analysis; in the end
说实话	shuo	hua	to speak the truth; truth to tell; frankly
说岳全传	shuo	zhuan	"The Story of Yue Fei", biography of Song dynasty patriot and general Yue Fei 岳飛|岳飞[Yue4 Fei1]
说干就干	shuo	gan	to do what needs to be done, without delay
说废话	shuo	hua	to talk nonsense; to bullshit
说得上	shuo	shang	can be counted or regarded as; to be able to tell or answer; to deserve mention
说得过去	shuo	qu	acceptable; passable; justifiable
说文解字	shuo	zi	Shuowen Jiezi, the earliest systematic Chinese character dictionary, compiled by Xu Shen 許慎|许慎[Xu3 Shen4] in the Eastern Han dynasty (2nd century), containing 10,516 entries
说文解字注	shuo	zhu	Commentary on Shuowen Jiezi (1815) by Duan Yucai 段玉裁[Duan4 Yu4 cai2]
说时迟那时快	shuo	kuai	(idiom) no sooner said than done; before you know it
说明书	shuo	shu	(technical) manual; (book of) directions; synopsis (of a play or film)
说明会	shuo	hui	information meeting
说曹操曹操到	shuo	dao	see 說曹操曹操就到|说曹操曹操就到[shuo1 Cao2 Cao1 Cao2 Cao1 jiu4 dao4]
说曹操曹操就到	shuo	dao	lit. speak of Cao Cao and Cao Cao arrives; fig. speak of the devil and he doth appear
说服力	shuo	li	persuasiveness
说来话长	shuo	chang	start explaining and it's a long story (idiom); complicated and not easy to express succinctly
说来说去	shuo	qu	(idiom) when all is said and done
说溜嘴	shuo	zui	to make a slip of the tongue
说漏嘴	shuo	zui	to blurt out; to let slip
说白了	shuo	le	to speak frankly
说真的	shuo	de	to tell the truth; honestly; in fact
说着玩	shuo	wan	to say sth for fun; to be kidding; to joke around
说着玩儿	shuo	r	erhua variant of 說著玩|说着玩[shuo1 zhe5 wan2]
说老实话	shuo	hua	to be honest; to tell the truth; to be frank
说葡萄酸	shuo	suan	sour grapes (set expr. based on Aesop); lit. to say grapes are sour when you can't eat them
说话不当话	shuo	hua	to fail to keep to one's word; to break a promise
说话算数	shuo	shu	to keep one's promise; to mean what one says
说话算话	shuo	hua	to do as promised; to be as good as one's word; to honor one's word
说话要算数	shuo	shu	promises must be kept
说说而已	shuo	yi	nothing serious; just hot air
说谎者	shuo	zhe	liar
说长道短	shuo	duan	lit. to discuss sb's merits and demerits (idiom); to gossip
说闲话	shuo	hua	to chat; to gossip
说风凉话	shuo	hua	to sneer; to make cynical remarks; sarcastic talk
诵读困难症	song	zheng	dyslexia
请假条	qing	tiao	leave of absence request (from work or school)
请别见怪	qing	guai	please don't be upset; no hard feelings; absit iniuria verbis
请勿吸烟	qing	yan	No smoking; Please do not smoke
请勿打扰	qing	rao	please do not disturb
请君入瓮	qing	weng	lit. please Sir, get into the boiling pot (idiom); fig. to give sb a taste of his own medicine
请多关照	qing	zhao	please treat me kindly (conventional greeting on first meeting)
请将不如激将	qing	jiang	lit. to dispatch a general is not as effective as to excite a general; fig. inciting people to action is more effective than dispatching orders
请愿书	qing	shu	petition
请求宽恕	qing	shu	to sue for mercy; to ask for forgiveness; begging for magnanimity
请神容易送神难	qing	nan	it's easier to invite the devil in than to send him away
诸侯国	zhu	guo	vassal state
诸凡百事	zhu	shi	everything
诸城市	zhu	shi	Zhucheng, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
诸如此类	zhu	lei	things like this (idiom); and so on; and the rest; etc
诸子十家	zhu	jia	various sages and ten schools of thought; refers to the classical schools of thought, e.g. Confucianism 儒[ru2] represented by Confucius 孔子[Kong3 zi3] and Mencius 孟子[Meng4 zi3], Daoism 道[dao4] by Laozi 老子[Lao3 zi3] and Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3], Mohism 墨[mo4] by Mozi 墨子[Mo4 zi3], Legalism 法[fa3] by Sunzi 孫子|孙子[Sun1 zi3] and Han Feizi 韓非子|韩非子[Han2 Fei1 zi3], and numerous others
诸子百家	zhu	jia	the Hundred Schools of Thought, the various schools of thought and their exponents during the Spring and Autumn and Warring States Periods (770-220 BC)
诸广山	zhu	shan	Mt Zhuguang between Jiangxi and Hunan
诸暨市	zhu	shi	Zhuji, a county-level city in Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
诸葛亮	zhu	liang	Zhuge Liang (181–234), military leader and prime minister of Shu Han 蜀漢|蜀汉[Shu3 Han4] during the Three Kingdoms period; the main hero of the fictional Romance of Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4], where he is portrayed as a sage and military genius; (fig.) a mastermind
诺丁汉	nuo	han	Nottingham (city in England)
诺丁汉郡	nuo	jun	Nottinghamshire (English county)
诺亚方舟	nuo	zhou	Noah's ark
诺伊曼	nuo	man	John von Neumann (1903–1957), Hungarian-born American mathematician and polymath
诺克少	nuo	shao	Nouakchott, capital of Mauritania (Tw)
诺基亚	nuo	ya	Nokia (company name)
诺夫哥罗德	nuo	de	Novgorod, city in Russia
诺如病毒	nuo	du	norovirus (loanword)
诺曼人	nuo	ren	Normans (people)
诺曼底	nuo	di	Normandy, France
诺曼底人	nuo	ren	Norman (people)
诺曼底半岛	nuo	dao	Normandy Peninsula (i.e. Cotentin Peninsula)
诺曼征服	nuo	fu	the Norman conquest of England (1066)
诺曼第	nuo	di	Normandy, France
诺矩罗	nuo	luo	Nuojuluo, monk at start of Tang dynasty, possibly originally immigrant, lived in Qingshen county 青神[Qing1 shen2], Sichuan
诺福克岛	nuo	dao	Norfolk Island
诺维乔克	nuo	ke	Novichok (nerve agent)
诺罗病毒	nuo	du	norovirus (Tw) (loanword)
诺美克斯	nuo	si	Nomex (brand)
诺贝尔	nuo	er	Nobel (Prize)
诺贝尔和平奖	nuo	jiang	Nobel Peace Prize
诺贝尔奖	nuo	jiang	Nobel Prize
诺贝尔文学奖	nuo	jiang	Nobel Prize in Literature
诺贝尔物理学奖	nuo	jiang	Nobel Prize in Physics
读万卷书行万里路	du	lu	(lit.) read ten thousand books and travel ten thousand miles (idiom); (fig.) acquire knowledge from study and wisdom from practical experience
读书人	du	ren	scholar; intellectual
读书会	du	hui	study group
读书机	du	ji	audio-output reading machine
读写能力	du	li	literacy
读卖新闻	du	wen	Yomiuri Shimbun (Japanese newspaper)
读卡器	du	qi	card reader
读后感	du	gan	impression of a book; opinion expressed in a book review
读破句	du	ju	incorrect break in reading Chinese, dividing text into clauses at wrong point
读者文摘	du	zhai	Reader's Digest
课外读物	ke	wu	extracurricular reading material
课程表	ke	biao	class timetable
课间操	ke	cao	setting-up exercises during the break (between classes)
谁人乐队	shei	dui	The Who (1960s UK rock band)
谁怕谁	shei	shei	bring it on!; who's afraid?
谁知道	shei	dao	God knows...; Who would have imagined...?
调三窝四	tiao	si	to sow the seeds of discord everywhere (idiom)
调停者	tiao	zhe	mediator; intermediary; go-between
调光器	tiao	qi	dimmer
调兵山	diao	shan	see 調兵山市|调兵山市[Diao4 bing1 shan1 Shi4]
调兵山市	diao	shi	Diaobingshan, a county-level city in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
调兵遣将	diao	jiang	to move an army and send a general (idiom); to deploy an army; to send a team on a task
调制波	tiao	bo	modulated wave (elec.)
调制解调器	tiao	qi	modem
调味剂	tiao	ji	flavoring agent
调味品	tiao	pin	seasoning; flavoring
调味料	tiao	liao	seasoning; condiment; flavoring
调味汁	tiao	zhi	dressing; sauce
调味肉汁	tiao	zhi	gravy
调和分析	tiao	xi	harmonic analysis (math.)
调和平均数	tiao	shu	harmonic mean
调和振动	tiao	dong	harmonic oscillation
调嘴学舌	tiao	she	to incite trouble between people (idiom)
调干生	diao	sheng	worker chosen to become a cadre and sent to complete his schooling
调查人员	diao	yuan	investigator
调查员	diao	yuan	investigator
调查团	diao	tuan	investigating team
调查核实	diao	shi	to investigate; investigation
调查结果	diao	guo	results (of an investigation, poll)
调查者	diao	zhe	investigator
调查表	diao	biao	questionnaire; inventory list; CL:張|张[zhang1],份[fen4]
调查记者	diao	zhe	investigative reporter
调理食品	tiao	pin	precooked food
调皮捣蛋	tiao	dan	naughty; mischievous; to act up
调研人员	tiao	yuan	research workers; survey and research workers
调色板	tiao	ban	palette
调色盘	tiao	pan	palette
调节器	tiao	qi	regulator
调药刀	tiao	dao	spatula
调虎离山	diao	shan	to lure the tiger from its domain in the mountains (idiom); to lure an enemy away from his territory
调车场	diao	chang	(railroad) classification yard; marshalling yard; shunting yard
调酒器	tiao	qi	(cocktail) shaker
调酒师	tiao	shi	bartender
调门儿	diao	r	erhua variant of 調門|调门[diao4 men2]
谄媚者	chan	zhe	flatterer
谅解备忘录	liang	lu	memorandum of understanding
谆谆告诫	zhun	jie	to repeatedly advise sb earnestly (idiom); to admonish
谈不上	tan	shang	to be out of the question
谈不拢	tan	long	can't come to an agreement
谈何容易	tan	yi	easier said than done (idiom)
谈判地	tan	di	place for negotiations
谈判地位	tan	wei	bargaining position
谈判桌	tan	zhuo	conference table
谈古论今	tan	jin	to talk of the past and discuss the present (idiom); to chat freely; to discuss everything
谈天说地	tan	di	to talk endlessly; to talk about everything under the sun
谈婚论嫁	tan	jia	(idiom) (of a couple) to discuss getting married
谈得来	tan	lai	to be able to talk to; to get along with; to be congenial
谈性色变	tan	bian	to turn pale at the mention of sex; prudish
谈恋爱	tan	ai	to be in a romantic relationship; to go steady; to be dating
谈情说爱	tan	ai	to murmur endearments (idiom); to get into a romantic relationship
谈朋友	tan	you	to be dating sb
谈笑自若	tan	ruo	to talk and laugh as though nothing had happened; to remain cheerful (despite a crisis)
谈笑风生	tan	sheng	to talk cheerfully and wittily; to joke together
谈虎色变	tan	bian	(lit.) to turn pale at the mention of a tiger (idiom); (fig.) to be terrified at the thought (of it)
谋事在人成事在天	mou	tian	planning is with man, accomplishing with heaven (idiom); Man proposes but God disposes.
谋杀案	mou	an	murder case
谋杀罪	mou	zui	murder
谋臣如雨	mou	yu	strategic experts as thick as rain (idiom); no shortage of advisers on strategy
谋臣武将	mou	jiang	strategic experts and powerful generals (idiom)
谋臣猛将	mou	jiang	strategic experts and powerful generals (idiom)
谋财害命	mou	ming	to plot and kill sb for his property (idiom); to murder for money
谐振动	xie	dong	harmonic oscillation (e.g. sound wave)
谐振子	xie	zi	harmonic oscillator (physics)
谐音列	xie	lie	harmonic series
谐音梗	xie	geng	homophonic pun
谑而不虐	xue	nve	to tease; to mock sb without offending; to banter
谢天谢地	xie	di	(idiom) thank goodness
谢家集	xie	ji	see 謝家集區|谢家集区[Xie4 jia1 ji2 Qu1]
谢家集区	xie	qu	Xiejiaji, a district of Huainan City 淮南市[Huai2 nan2 Shi4], Anhui
谢尔巴人	xie	ren	Sherpa
谢尔盖	xie	gai	Sergei (name)
谢师宴	xie	yan	banquet hosted by students in honor of their teachers
谢灵运	xie	yun	Xie Lingyun (385-433) poet during Song of the Southern Dynasties 南朝宋
谢绝参观	xie	guan	closed to visitors; no admittance
谢肉节	xie	jie	carnival (esp. Christian)
谢通门	xie	men	see 謝通門縣|谢通门县[Xie4 tong1 men2 Xian4]
谢通门县	xie	xian	Xaitongmoin, a county in Shigatse City 日喀則市|日喀则市[Ri4 ka1 ze2 Shi4], Tibet
谢里夫	xie	fu	Sharif (name); Nawaz Sharif (1949-), Pakistani politician
谢长廷	xie	ting	Frank Chang-ting Hsieh (1946-), Taiwanese DPP politician, mayor of Kaohsiung 1998-2005
谢霆锋	xie	feng	Tse Ting-Fung or Nicholas Tse (1980-), Cantopop star
谣言惑众	yao	zhong	to mislead the public with rumors; to delude the people with lies
谬种流传	miu	chuan	to pass on errors or lies (idiom); the propagation of misconceptions
谭咏麟	tan	lin	Alan Tam (1950-), Hong Kong Canto-pop singer and actor
谭嗣同	tan	tong	Tan Sitong (1865-1898), Qing writer and politician, one of the Six Gentlemen Martyrs 戊戌六君子 of the unsuccessful reform movement of 1898
谭富英	tan	ying	Tan Fuying (1906-1977), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
谭鑫培	tan	pei	Tan Xinpei (1847-1917), noted opera actor
谭震林	tan	lin	Tan Zhenlin (1902-1983), PRC revolutionary and military leader, played political role after the Cultural Revolution
谯城区	qiao	qu	Qiaocheng, a district of Bozhou City 亳州市[Bo2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
谱分析	pu	xi	spectral analysis (physics)
谴责小说	qian	shuo	novel of denunciation (according to Lu Xun's 魯迅|鲁迅[Lu3 Xun4] classification)
谷城县	gu	xian	Gucheng, a county in Xiangyang City 襄陽市|襄阳市[Xiang1 yang2 Shi4], Hubei
谷梁传	gu	zhuan	Guliang Annals, commentary on the Spring and Autumn Annals 春秋[Chun1 qiu1], first published during the Han Dynasty
谷氨酰胺	gu	an	glutamine (Gln), an amino acid
谷氨酸	gu	suan	glutamic acid (Glu), an amino acid
谷氨酸钠	gu	na	monosodium glutamate (MSG) (E621)
谷神星	gu	xing	Ceres, dwarf planet in the asteroid belt between Mars and Jupiter, discovered in 1801 by G. Piazzi
豁免权	huo	quan	immunity from prosecution
豁出去	huo	qu	to throw caution to the wind; to press one's luck; to go for broke
豁然开朗	huo	lang	suddenly opens up to a wide panorama (idiom); to come to a wide clearing; fig. everything becomes clear at once; to achieve speedy enlightenment
豆制品	dou	pin	legume-based product; soybean product
豆橛子	dou	zi	(Shandong dialect) cowpea (Vigna unguiculata)
豆沙包	dou	bao	bean paste bun
豆渣脑筋	dou	jin	idiot; porridge head
豆满江	dou	jiang	Dumangang, Korean name of Tumen river 圖們江|图们江[Tu2 men2 jiang1] in Jilin province, forming the eastern border between China and North Korea
豆瓣网	dou	wang	Douban, PRC social networking website
豆瓣菜	dou	cai	watercress (Nasturtium officinale)
豆瓣酱	dou	jiang	sticky chili bean sauce; doubanjiang
豆科植物	dou	wu	legume; leguminous plant
豆腐乳	dou	ru	fermented tofu
豆腐干	dou	gan	see 豆干[dou4 gan1]
豆腐渣	dou	zha	okara (i.e. soy pulp, a by-product of making soymilk or tofu)
豆腐渣工程	dou	cheng	jerry-built building project; lit. built on soybean dregs
豆腐皮	dou	pi	tofu skin (made by drying the skin that forms on the surface of soymilk during cooking, and therefore not actually made from tofu)
豆腐脑	dou	nao	jellied tofu; soft bean curd
豆腐花	dou	hua	jellied tofu; soft bean curd
豆芽菜	dou	cai	bean sprouts
豆蓉包	dou	bao	bean paste bun
豆蔻年华	dou	hua	(idiom) (of a girl) 13 or 14 years old; early teens; adolescence
豆薯属	dou	shu	yam bean; Pachyrhizus genus
豆袋弹	dou	dan	bean bag round
豆角儿	dou	r	erhua variant of 豆角[dou4 jiao3]
豆豆帽	dou	mao	beanie
豆豆鞋	dou	xie	loafers (the name comes from the rubber "pebbles", which resemble beans, on the sole of some loafers)
豆豉酱	dou	jiang	black bean sauce
豌豆尖	wan	jian	pea shoots
豌豆粥	wan	zhou	pea gruel
豌豆象	wan	xiang	pea weevil
象声词	xiang	ci	onomatopoeia
象山区	xiang	qu	Xiangshan, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
象山县	xiang	xian	Xiangshan, a county in Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
象州县	xiang	xian	Xiangzhou, a county in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
象形字	xiang	zi	pictogram (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters); Chinese character derived from a picture; sometimes called hieroglyph
象形文字	xiang	zi	pictogram; hieroglyph
象征主义	xiang	yi	symbolism
象征性	xiang	xing	symbolic; emblem; token
象拔蚌	xiang	bang	elephant trunk clam; geoduck (Panopea abrupta), large clam with a long proboscis (native to the west coast of North America)
象棋赛	xiang	sai	Chinese chess tournament
象海豹	xiang	bao	elephant seal
象牙塔	xiang	ta	ivory tower
象牙海岸	xiang	an	Côte d'Ivoire or Ivory Coast (Tw)
象皮病	xiang	bing	(medicine) elephantiasis
象鼻山	xiang	shan	Elephant Trunk Hill in Guilin, Guangxi
象鼻虫	xiang	chong	weevil; snout beetle
豪华型	hao	xing	deluxe model
豪华轿车	hao	che	limousine; luxury carriage
豪商巨贾	hao	gu	see 富商巨賈|富商巨贾[fu4 shang1 ju4 gu3]
豪情壮志	hao	zhi	lofty ideals; noble aspirations
豪气干云	hao	yun	lit. heroism reaching to the clouds (idiom)
豪萨语	hao	yu	the Hausa language
豪言壮语	hao	yu	bold, visionary words
豺狼座	chai	zuo	Lupus (constellation)
豺狼当路	chai	lu	see 豺狼當道|豺狼当道[chai2 lang2 dang1 dao4]
豺狼当道	chai	dao	(idiom) wicked people hold power; a vicious tyranny rules the land
豺狼虎豹	chai	bao	(lit.) jackals, wolves, tigers and panthers (idiom); (fig.) nasty, cruel people
貌合心离	mao	li	see 貌合神離|貌合神离[mao4 he2 shen2 li2]
貌合神离	mao	li	the appearance of unity, but divided at heart (idiom); seeming harmony belies underlying disagreement
貌美如花	mao	hua	(of a woman) lovely as a flower (idiom); beautiful
貌若潘安	mao	an	to have the looks of a Pan An 潘安[Pan1 An1] (referring to a historical figure said to be extremely handsome)
贝克勒尔	bei	er	becquerel (unit of radioactivity, symbol Bq); abbr. to 貝克|贝克[bei4 ke4]
贝克尔	bei	er	Baker or Becker (name)
贝克汉姆	bei	mu	Beckenham or Beckham (name); David Beckham (1975-), British midfield footballer
贝内特	bei	te	(surname) Bennett
贝利卡登	bei	deng	Ballycotton (Irish: Baile Choitín), village near Cork; Ballycotton, music band
贝加尔湖	bei	hu	Lake Baikal, Russia
贝努力	bei	li	Bernoulli (Swiss mathematical family, including Johann (1667-1748) and Daniel (1700-1782))
贝卡谷地	bei	di	Bekaa Valley between Lebanon and Syria
贝卢斯科尼	bei	ni	Silvio Berlusconi (1936–2023), Italian media magnate and right-wing politician, prime minister of Italy 1994–1995, 2001–2006, 2008–2011
贝叶斯	bei	si	Bayes (name); Thomas Bayes (1702-1761), English mathematician and theologian
贝叶棕	bei	zong	pattra palm tree (Corypha umbraculifera), whose leaves were used as paper substitute for Buddhist sutras
贝叶经	bei	jing	sutra written on leaves of pattra palm tree
贝塔斯曼	bei	man	Bertelsmann, German media company
贝壳儿	bei	r	erhua variant of 貝殼|贝壳[bei4 ke2]
贝多罗树	bei	shu	Talipot palm (Corypha umbraculifera), whose leaves were used as writing media
贝多芬	bei	fen	Ludwig van Beethoven (1770-1827), German composer
贝娅特丽克丝	bei	si	Beatrix (name)
贝尔墨邦	bei	bang	Belmopan, capital of Belize (Tw)
贝尔实验室	bei	shi	Bell Labs
贝尔格勒	bei	le	Belgrade, capital of Serbia (Tw)
贝尔格莱德	bei	de	Belgrade, capital of Serbia
贝尔法斯特	bei	te	Belfast, capital of Northern Ireland
贝尔湖	bei	hu	Buir Lake of Inner Mongolia
贝尔莫潘	bei	pan	Belmopan, capital of Belize
贝拉米	bei	mi	Bellamy
贝斯吉他	bei	ta	bass guitar
贝斯手	bei	shou	bassist; bass player
贝氏体	bei	ti	(metallurgy) bainite; bainitic
贝纳通	bei	tong	Benetton, clothes company
贝聿铭	bei	ming	Pei Ieoh Ming or I.M. Pei (1917-2019), Chinese-American architect
贝里斯	bei	si	Belize (Tw)
贝雷帽	bei	mao	(loanword) beret
贝鲁特	bei	te	Beirut, capital of Lebanon
贞丰县	zhen	xian	Zhenfeng, a county in Qianxinan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
贞操带	zhen	dai	chastity belt
贞节牌坊	zhen	fang	memorial arch in honor of a chaste widow
负一层	fu	ceng	(architecture) basement level 1; floor B1
负一屏	fu	ping	left panel (displayed by swiping right from the main panel of the home screen)
负一楼	fu	lou	basement level 1; floor B1
负优化	fu	hua	to degrade the performance of a sold product via a system update
负债累累	fu	lei	deep in debt
负反馈	fu	kui	negative feedback
负增长	fu	zhang	negative growth; economic recession
负外部性	fu	xing	negative influence, effect that people's doings or behavior have on others (society)
负心汉	fu	han	traitor to one's love; heartless rat
负担不起	fu	qi	cannot afford; cannot bear the burden
负整数	fu	shu	negative integer
负无穷	fu	qiong	(math.) negative infinity
负有责任	fu	ren	at fault; blamed for; responsible (for a blunder or crime)
负相关	fu	guan	negative correlation
负离子	fu	zi	negative ion; anion (physics)
负能量	fu	liang	negative energy; negativity
负荆请罪	fu	zui	lit. to bring a bramble and ask for punishment (idiom); fig. to offer sb a humble apology
负责人	fu	ren	person in charge
负责任	fu	ren	to take responsibility; to bear responsibility; to be responsible
负载均衡	fu	heng	(computing) load balancing
负重训练	fu	lian	weight training
负隅顽抗	fu	kang	(idiom) to put up fierce resistance despite being surrounded; to stubbornly refuse to admit defeat
贡井区	gong	qu	Gongjing, a district of Zigong City 自貢市|自贡市[Zi4 gong4 Shi4], Sichuan
贡嘎县	gong	xian	Gonggar, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
贡多拉	gong	la	(loanword) gondola (Venetian canal boat)
贡山县	gong	xian	see 貢山獨龍族怒族自治縣|贡山独龙族怒族自治县[Gong4 shan1 Du2 long2 zu2 Nu4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
贡献者	gong	zhe	contributor; benefactor
贡觉县	gong	xian	Gonjo, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
贡都拉	gong	la	see 貢多拉|贡多拉[gong4 duo1 la1]
贡高我慢	gong	man	haughty and arrogant
财产价值	cai	zhi	property value
财产公证	cai	zheng	property notarization
财产权	cai	quan	property rights
财务再保险	cai	xian	financial reinsurance (aka "fin re")
财务大臣	cai	chen	finance minister
财务秘书	cai	shu	treasurer
财务自由	cai	you	financial independence
财务软件	cai	jian	financial software; accounting software
财大气粗	cai	cu	rich and imposing; rich and overbearing
财富自由	cai	you	financial independence
财政大臣	cai	chen	finance minister; UK chancellor of exchequer
财政年度	cai	du	fiscal year
财政部	cai	bu	Ministry of Finance
财政部长	cai	zhang	minister of finance
财源滚滚	cai	gun	profits pouring in from all sides (idiom); raking in money; bonanza
财神爷	cai	ye	god of wealth; very wealthy man
财税厅	cai	ting	(provincial) department of finance
财迷心窍	cai	qiao	mad about money (idiom)
责任事故	ze	gu	accident occurring due to negligence
责任人	ze	ren	responsible person; coordinator
责任保险	ze	xian	liability insurance
责任制	ze	zhi	system of job responsibility
责任心	ze	xin	sense of responsibility
责任感	ze	gan	sense of responsibility
责任编辑	ze	ji	editor in charge
责备求全	ze	quan	see 求全責備|求全责备[qiu2 quan2 ze2 bei4]
责无旁贷	ze	dai	to be duty bound; to be one's unshirkable responsibility
责有攸归	ze	gui	responsibility must lie where it belongs (idiom)
贤内助	xian	zhu	(said of sb else's wife) a good wife
贤妻良母	xian	mu	a good wife and loving mother
贤者时间	xian	jian	(slang) post-nut clarity moment
贤者模式	xian	shi	(slang) state of post-nut clarity; post-orgasmic state of calm detachment
败子回头	bai	tou	return of the prodigal son
败家子	bai	zi	spendthrift; wastrel; prodigal
败柳残花	bai	hua	see 殘花敗柳|残花败柳[can2 hua1 bai4 liu3]
败血症	bai	zheng	septicaemia
账房先生	zhang	sheng	bookkeeper (old)
货到付款	huo	kuan	cash on delivery (COD)
货币主义	huo	yi	monetarism
货币供应量	huo	liang	(economics) money supply
货币兑换	huo	huan	currency exchange
货币危机	huo	ji	monetary crisis
货币市场	huo	chang	money market
货币贬值	huo	zhi	currency devaluation; to devaluate a currency
货柜车	huo	che	(Tw) container truck
货比三家	huo	jia	to shop around (idiom)
货比三家不吃亏	huo	kui	shop around first and you won't get ripped off (idiom)
货物运输	huo	shu	freight or cargo transportation
货真价实	huo	shi	(lit.) genuine goods at fair prices (idiom); (fig.) genuine; real; true
货运列车	huo	che	goods train; freight train
货运卡车	huo	che	freight truck
货问三家不吃亏	huo	kui	see 貨比三家不吃虧|货比三家不吃亏[huo4 bi3 san1 jia1 bu4 chi1 kui1]
质因数	zhi	shu	prime factor (in arithmetic)
质子数	zhi	shu	proton number in nucleus; atomic number
质子轰击	zhi	ji	proton bombardment
质检局	zhi	ju	quarantine bureau; quality inspection office
质的飞跃	zhi	yue	qualitative leap
质谱仪	zhi	yi	mass spectrometer
质量保障	zhi	zhang	quality assurance (QA)
质量块	zhi	kuai	a mass; a body
质量数	zhi	shu	atomic weight of an element; atomic mass
质量检查	zhi	cha	quality inspection
质量管理	zhi	li	quality management
贩卖人口	fan	kou	trafficking in human beings
贩卖机	fan	ji	(Tw) vending machine
贩夫俗子	fan	zi	peddlers and common people; lower class
贩夫走卒	fan	zu	lit. peddlers and carriers; common people; lower class
贪吃鬼	tan	gui	glutton; chowhound
贪多嚼不烂	tan	lan	to bite off more than one can chew (idiom)
贪天之功	tan	gong	to claim credit for other people's achievements (idiom)
贪婪无厌	tan	yan	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
贪官污吏	tan	li	grasping officials, corrupt mandarins (idiom); abuse and corruption
贪小失大	tan	da	penny wise and pound foolish (idiom)
贪得无厌	tan	yan	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
贪得无餍	tan	yan	variant of 貪得無厭|贪得无厌[tan1 de2 wu2 yan4]
贪心不足	tan	zu	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
贪求无厌	tan	yan	insatiably greedy (idiom)
贪污腐化	tan	hua	(idiom) corruption
贪污腐败	tan	bai	corruption
贪猥无厌	tan	yan	avaricious and insatiable (idiom); greedy and never satisfied
贪玩儿	tan	r	erhua variant of 貪玩|贪玩[tan1 wan2]
贪生怕死	tan	si	greedy for life, afraid of death (idiom); craven and cowardly; clinging abjectly to life; only interested in saving one's neck
贪贿无艺	tan	yi	greed for bribes knows no bounds (idiom); unbridled corruption
贪赃枉法	tan	fa	corruption and abuse of the law (idiom); to take bribes and bend the law
贫下中农	pin	nong	(category defined by the Communist Party) poor and lower-middle peasants: farmers who, before land reform, possessed little or no land (poor peasants) and those who were barely able to support themselves with their own land (lower-middle peasants)
贫嘴滑舌	pin	she	garrulous and sharp-tongued
贫嘴薄舌	pin	she	garrulous and sharp-tongued
贫困地区	pin	qu	poor region; impoverished area
贫困率	pin	lv	poverty rate
贫富差距	pin	ju	disparity between rich and poor
贫无立锥	pin	zhui	not even enough land to stand an awl (idiom); absolutely destitute
贫无立锥之地	pin	di	not even enough land to stand an awl (idiom); absolutely destitute
贫民区	pin	qu	slum area; ghetto
贫民窟	pin	ku	slum housing
贫油国	pin	guo	country poor in oil
贫病交加	pin	jia	poverty compounded by ill health (idiom)
贫病交迫	pin	po	beset by poverty and illness (idiom)
贫穷潦倒	pin	dao	destitute; poverty-stricken
贫血性坏死	pin	si	anemic necrosis
贫血症	pin	zheng	anemia
贫贱不能移	pin	yi	not shaken by poverty; to preserve one's ambitions although destitute
贫限想	pin	xiang	(Internet slang) (wryly jocular) poverty limits my power of imagination; (fig.) flabbergasted by the antics of the wealthy; the rich live in another world
贫雇农	pin	nong	poor peasants (in Marxism)
贬多于褒	bian	bao	to get more criticism than praise
购书券	gou	quan	book token
购买力	gou	li	purchasing power
购物中心	gou	xin	shopping center
购物券	gou	quan	coupon
购物大厦	gou	sha	shopping mall
购物广场	gou	chang	shopping mall
购物手推车	gou	che	shopping cart
购物节	gou	jie	shopping festival; large-scale promotional sales event (e.g. Singles' Day 雙十一|双十一[Shuang1 Shi2 yi1])
购物袋	gou	dai	shopping bag
购物车	gou	che	shopping cart
贮存器	zhu	qi	storage device (computing)
贮存管	zhu	guan	storage container for liquid or gas; gas holder
贮木场	zhu	chang	lumber yard
贮水处	zhu	chu	reservoir
贯彻始终	guan	zhong	to follow through; to carry through to the end
贱骨头	jian	tou	miserable wretch; contemptible individual
贴合面	tie	mian	faying surface
贴心贴肺	tie	fei	considerate and caring; very close; intimate
贴片式	tie	shi	(electronics) surface mount
贴现率	tie	lv	discount rate
贴秋膘	tie	biao	to gain weight in the fall (to prepare for winter)
贴身卫队	tie	dui	personal bodyguard
贵人多忘	gui	wang	an eminent person has short memory (idiom)
贵人多忘事	gui	shi	see 貴人多忘|贵人多忘[gui4 ren2 duo1 wang4]
贵公司	gui	si	your company
贵南县	gui	xian	Guinan, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
贵古贱今	gui	jin	to revere the past and despise the present (idiom)
贵圈真乱	gui	luan	(slang, jocular, neologism c. 2006, used esp. in relation to public figures) the things you and your friends get up to (misbehavior, scandals etc) leave me shaking my head
贵妃床	gui	chuang	chaise longue
贵妃醉酒	gui	jiu	The Drunken Beauty, Qing Dynasty Beijing opera
贵妇人	gui	ren	dame
贵妇犬	gui	quan	poodle
贵定县	gui	xian	Guiding, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
贵宾室	gui	shi	VIP lounge
贵宾犬	gui	quan	poodle
贵州省	gui	sheng	Guizhou Province, capital Guiyang 貴陽市|贵阳市[Gui4 yang2 Shi4] (short name 貴|贵[Gui4] or 黔[Qian2])
贵德县	gui	xian	Guide, a county in Hainan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海南藏族自治州[Hai3 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
贵族化	gui	hua	gentrification; aristocratic; upper-class
贵族社会	gui	hui	aristocracy
贵格会	gui	hui	Society of Friends; the Quakers
贵池区	gui	qu	Guichi, a district of Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
贵港市	gui	shi	Guigang, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
贵溪市	gui	shi	Guixi, a county-level city in Yingtan City 鷹潭市|鹰潭市[Ying1 tan2 Shi4], Jiangxi
贵珊瑚	gui	hu	precious coral; red coral (Corallium rubrum and several related species of marine coral)
贵远贱近	gui	jin	to revere the past and despise the present (idiom)
贵金属	gui	shu	precious metal
贵阳市	gui	shi	Guiyang, prefecture-level city and capital of Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
贷学金	dai	jin	student loan
贷款人	dai	ren	the lender
贷款率	dai	lv	lending interest rate
贸易中心	mao	xin	trade center; shopping mall
贸易伙伴	mao	ban	trading partner
贸易保护主义	mao	yi	trade protectionism
贸易公司	mao	si	trading company
贸易协定	mao	ding	trade agreement
贸易壁垒	mao	lei	trade barrier
贸易战	mao	zhan	trade war
贸易组织	mao	zhi	trade organization
贸易货栈	mao	zhan	commercial warehouse
贸易逆差	mao	cha	trade deficit; adverse trade balance
贸易顺差	mao	cha	trade surplus
贸易额	mao	e	volume of trade (between countries)
费利克斯	fei	si	Felix
费力不讨好	fei	hao	arduous and thankless task (idiom); strenuous and unrewarding
费加罗报	fei	bao	Le Figaro
费劲儿	fei	r	erhua variant of 費勁|费劲[fei4 jin4]
费卢杰	fei	jie	Fallujah, Iraqi city on Euphrates
费口舌	fei	she	to argue needlessly; to waste time explaining
费周折	fei	zhe	to spend (much) effort; to go through (a lot of) trouble
费唇舌	fei	she	to argue needlessly; to waste time explaining
费奥多尔	fei	er	Theodor of Fyodor (name)
费孝通	fei	tong	Fei Xiaotong (1910-2005), Chinese sociologist
费尔巴哈	fei	ha	Ludwig Feuerbach (1804-1872), materialist philosopher
费尔干纳	fei	na	the Ferghana Valley (in Uzbekistan, central Asia)
费尔干纳盆地	fei	di	the Ferghana Valley in modern Uzbekistan
费尔马	fei	ma	Pierre de Fermat (1601–1665), French mathematician
费尽心思	fei	si	to rack one's brains (idiom); to take great pains to think sth through
费尽心机	fei	ji	to rack one's brains for schemes (idiom); to beat one's brains out
费工夫	fei	fu	to spend a great deal of time and effort; (of a task) demanding; exacting
费德勒	fei	le	Roger Federer (1981-), Swiss tennis star
费拉德尔菲亚	fei	ya	Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; abbr. to 費城|费城[Fei4 cheng2]
费洛蒙	fei	meng	pheromone
费米子	fei	zi	(physics) fermion
费舍尔	fei	er	(name) Fisher or Fischer
费边社	fei	she	Fabian Society
费马大定理	fei	li	(math.) Fermat's Last Theorem
贺兰县	he	xian	Helan, a county in Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
贺兰山	he	shan	Helan Mountains, lying across part of the border between Ningxia and Inner Mongolia
贺兰山岩鹨	he	liu	(bird species of China) Kozlov's accentor; Mongolian accentor (Prunella koslowi)
贺兰山红尾鸲	he	qu	(bird species of China) Przevalski's redstart; Ala Shan redstart (Phoenicurus alaschanicus)
贺兰山脉	he	mai	Helan Mountains, lying across part of the border between Ningxia and Inner Mongolia
贺军翔	he	xiang	Mike He (1983-), Taiwanese actor
贺子珍	he	zhen	He Zizhen (1910-1984), Mao Zedong's third wife
贺尔蒙	he	meng	(loanword) hormone
贺州市	he	shi	Hezhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
贺年卡	he	ka	New Year greeting card
贺年片	he	pian	New Year's card; CL:張|张[zhang1]
贺拉斯	he	si	Horace, full Latin name Quintus Horatius Flaccus (65-8 BC), Roman poet
贺普丁	he	ding	Chinese brand name of Lamivudine 拉米夫定[La1 mi3 fu1 ding4]
贺知章	he	zhang	He Zhizhang (659-744), Tang dynasty poet
贺锦丽	he	li	He Jinli, Chinese name adopted by Kamala Harris (1964-), US vice president 2021-
贻人口实	yi	shi	to make oneself an object of ridicule
贻害无穷	yi	qiong	to have disastrous consequences
贻笑大方	yi	fang	to make a fool of oneself; to make oneself a laughing stock
贻笑方家	yi	jia	a novice making a fool of himself; to make oneself ridiculous before experts
贻范古今	yi	jin	to leave an example for all generations
贼喊捉贼	zei	zei	lit. a thief crying "Stop the thief!" (idiom); fig. to accuse sb of a theft and try to sneak away oneself; to cover up one's misdeeds by shifting the blame onto others
贼头贼脑	zei	nao	lit. to behave like a thief; furtive; underhand
贼眉贼眼	zei	yan	see 賊眉鼠眼|贼眉鼠眼[zei2 mei2 shu3 yan3]
贼眉鼠眼	zei	yan	shifty-eyed; crafty-looking (idiom)
贾伯斯	jia	si	Jobs (name); see also 史提夫·賈伯斯|史提夫·贾伯斯[Shi3 ti2 fu1 · Jia3 bo2 si1], Steve Jobs
贾南德拉	jia	la	Gyanendra of Nepal
贾宝玉	jia	yu	Jia Baoyu, male character in The Dream of Red Mansions, in love with his cousin Lin Daiyu 林黛玉 but obliged to marry Xue Baochai 薛寶釵|薛宝钗
贾平凹	jia	wa	Jia Pingwa (1952-), Chinese novelist
贾庆林	jia	lin	Jia Qinglin (1940-), member of the Politburo Standing Committee 2002-2012
贾思勰	jia	xie	Jia Sixie, sixth century writer and author of agricultural encyclopedia Essential skill to benefit the people 齊民要術|齐民要术[Qi2 min2 Yao4 shu4]
贾汪区	jia	qu	Jiawang, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
贾第虫	jia	chong	(biology) giardia (esp. Giardia lamblia)
贾第虫病	jia	bing	(medicine) giardiasis
赃官污吏	zang	li	grasping officials, corrupt mandarins (idiom); abuse and corruption
资中县	zi	xian	Zizhong, a county in Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
资产价值	zi	zhi	value of assets
资产剥离	zi	li	asset stripping
资产担保证券	zi	quan	asset-backed security; ABS
资产组合	zi	he	asset portfolio
资产负债表	zi	biao	balance sheet
资产阶级	zi	ji	the capitalist class; the bourgeoisie
资产阶级右派	zi	pai	bourgeois rightist faction (esp. during anti-rightist movement of 1957-58)
资产阶级革命	zi	ming	bourgeois revolution (in Marx-Leninist theory, a prelude to the proletarian revolution)
资优班	zi	ban	(Tw) class composed of gifted students
资优生	zi	sheng	brilliant student
资兴市	zi	shi	Zixing, a county-level city in Chenzhou City 郴州市[Chen1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
资料中心	zi	xin	(Tw) data center
资料介面	zi	mian	data interface
资料仓储	zi	chu	data warehouse (computing)
资料传输	zi	shu	data transmission
资料夹	zi	jia	(file) folder
资料库	zi	ku	(Tw) (computing) database
资料片	zi	pian	a documentary film; (video gaming) expansion; add-on
资料量	zi	liang	quantity of data
资料链结层	zi	ceng	data link layer
资本主义	zi	yi	capitalism
资本储备	zi	bei	capital reserve
资本外逃	zi	tao	outflow of capital
资本家	zi	jia	capitalist
资本市场	zi	chang	capital market
资本计提	zi	ti	capital requirement
资本论	zi	lun	Das Kapital (1867) by Karl Marx 卡爾·馬克思|卡尔·马克思[Ka3 er3 · Ma3 ke4 si1]
资格赛	zi	sai	qualifying round (in sports)
资治通鉴	zi	jian	A Mirror for the Wise Ruler (or Comprehensive Mirror for Aid in Government), a vast chronological general history, written by 司馬光|司马光[Si1 ma3 Guang1] Sima Guang (1019-1089) and collaborators during the Northern Song in 1084, covering the period 403 BC-959 AD, 294 scrolls
资源县	zi	xian	Ziyuan, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
资溪县	zi	xian	Zixi, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
资生堂	zi	tang	Shiseidō (Japanese cosmetics company)
资讯工程	zi	cheng	information engineering (Tw)
资讯科技	zi	ji	information technology; science of communications
资遣费	zi	fei	severance pay (Tw)
资金杠杆	zi	gan	(finance) leverage; gearing
资阳区	zi	qu	Ziyang, a district of Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
资阳市	zi	shi	Ziyang, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
赋形剂	fu	ji	(pharm.) vehicle; excipient
赋格曲	fu	qu	(loanword) fugue
赌上一局	du	ju	to engage in a game of chance; to gamble; to make a bet
赌咒发誓	du	shi	to vow
赎罪日	shu	ri	Yom Kippur or Day of Atonement (Jewish holiday)
赎罪日战争	shu	zheng	the Yom Kippur war of October 1973 between Israel and her Arab neighbors
赏味期	shang	qi	period during which a food tastes its best
赏心悦目	shang	mu	warms the heart and delights the eye (idiom); pleasing; delightful
赏金猎人	shang	ren	bounty hunter
赒急扶困	zhou	kun	disaster relief
赔不是	pei	shi	to apologize
赔了夫人又折兵	pei	bing	lit. having given away a bride, to lose one's army on top of it (idiom); fig. to suffer a double loss after trying to trick the enemy
赔偿金	pei	jin	compensation
赔小心	pei	xin	to be conciliatory or apologetic; to tread warily in dealing with sb
赔钱货	pei	huo	unprofitable goods; item that can only be sold at a loss; daughter (so called in former times because daughters required a dowry when they married)
赖声川	lai	chuan	Lai Shengchuan (1954-), US-Taiwanese dramatist and director
赖昌星	lai	xing	Lai Changxing (1958-), notorious Xiamen mafia boss involved in large scale corruption and smuggling, extradited from Canada back to China in 2008
赖校族	lai	zu	campus dwellers (slang); graduates who cannot break away from campus life
赖比瑞亚	lai	ya	Liberia (Tw)
赖氨酸	lai	suan	lysine (Lys), an essential amino acid
赖清德	lai	de	William Lai Ching-te (1959-), Taiwanese DPP politician, vice president of the Republic of China from 2020
赖索托	lai	tuo	Lesotho (Tw)
赚吆喝	zhuan	he	(of a company) to gain recognition through promotional efforts; to spend money to win customers
赚回来	zhuan	lai	to earn back (money one invested, wasted etc)
赚大钱	zhuan	qian	to earn a fortune
赛义迪	sai	di	Said or Sayed (Arabic name)
赛先生	sai	sheng	"Mr Science", phrase used during the May 4th Movement 五四運動|五四运动[Wu3 si4 Yun4 dong4]; abbr. for 賽因斯|赛因斯[sai4 yin1 si1]; see also 德先生[De2 xian1 sheng5]
赛力斯	sai	si	Seres, Chinese electric vehicle brand
赛博朋克	sai	ke	(loanword) cyberpunk
赛博空间	sai	jian	cyberspace
赛因斯	sai	si	(loanword) science (early 20th-century term)
赛夏族	sai	zu	Saisiyat or Saisiat, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
赛德克族	sai	zu	Seediq, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
赛德娜	sai	na	Sedna, small body in the outer reaches of the solar system
赛普勒斯	sai	si	Cyprus (Tw)
赛格威	sai	wei	Segway PT
赛氏篱莺	sai	ying	(bird species of China) Sykes's warbler (Iduna rama)
赛珍珠	sai	zhu	Pearl S. Buck (1892-1973), American writer known for her novels on Asian cultures, Pulitzer Prize and Nobel Prize laureate
赛璐玢	sai	fen	(loanword) cellophane
赛璐珞	sai	luo	(loanword) celluloid
赛百味	sai	wei	Subway (fast food restaurant)
赛罕区	sai	qu	Saihan, a district of Hohhot City 呼和浩特市[Hu1 he2 hao4 te4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
赛车场	sai	chang	motor racetrack; cycle racetrack
赛车场赛	sai	sai	stadium cycle race
赛车女郎	sai	lang	pit babe; paddock girl; grid girl
赛车手	sai	shou	racing driver
赛轮思	sai	si	Cerence, US company providing AI-based automotive assistants
赛里木湖	sai	hu	Sayram Lake in Xinjiang
赛马会	sai	hui	horse racing organization; jockey club; turf club
赛马场	sai	chang	race course; race ground; race track
赛龙舟	sai	zhou	to race dragon boats
赛龙船	sai	chuan	dragon-boat race
赞不绝口	zan	kou	(idiom) can't stop praising
赞助商	zan	shang	sponsor
赞叹不已	zan	yi	(idiom) to be full of praise and admiration; to marvel endlessly; to be in awe
赞成票	zan	piao	affirmative vote
赞比亚	zan	ya	Zambia
赞皇县	zan	xian	Zanhuang, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
赞美诗	zan	shi	(Christianity) hymn; psalm
赞西佩	zan	pei	Xanthippe, Socrates' wife
赠与者	zeng	zhe	giver
赡养费	shan	fei	alimony; child support; maintenance allowance
赢家通吃	ying	chi	winner takes all
赣县区	gan	qu	Ganxian, a district of Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
赣州市	gan	shi	Ganzhou, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
赣榆区	gan	qu	Ganyu, a district of Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
赤卫军	chi	jun	Red Guards
赤卫队	chi	dui	Red Guards
赤口日	chi	ri	third day of the lunar year (inauspicious for visits because arguments happen easily on that day)
赤嘴潜鸭	chi	ya	(bird species of China) red-crested pochard (Netta rufina)
赤坎区	chi	qu	Chikan, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
赤城县	chi	xian	Chicheng, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
赤壁之战	chi	zhan	Battle of Redcliff of 208 at Chibi in Huangzhou district 黃州區|黄州区[Huang2 zhou1 qu1] of Huanggang city 黃岡|黄冈[Huang2 gang1], a decisive defeat of Cao Cao 曹操[Cao2 Cao1] at the hands of southern kingdom of Wu; famous episode in the Romance of the Three Kingdoms 三國演義|三国演义[San1 guo2 Yan3 yi4]
赤壁市	chi	shi	Chibi, a county-level city in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
赤子之心	chi	xin	pure and innocent like the heart of a newborn; sincere
赤字累累	chi	lei	debt-ridden; heavily laden with debt
赤小豆	chi	dou	see 紅豆|红豆[hong2 dou4]
赤尾噪鹛	chi	mei	(bird species of China) red-tailed laughingthrush (Trochalopteron milnei)
赤峰市	chi	shi	Chifeng, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
赤崁楼	chi	lou	Chihkan Tower (formerly Fort Provintia) in Tainan, Taiwan (also written 赤嵌樓|赤嵌楼[Chi4 kan3 lou2])
赤嵌楼	chi	lou	Chihkan Tower (formerly Fort Provintia) in Tainan, Taiwan (also written 赤崁樓|赤崁楼[Chi4 kan3 lou2])
赤手空拳	chi	quan	(idiom) with one's bare hands (unarmed – also figuratively: without assistance)
赤朱雀	chi	que	(bird species of China) Blanford's rosefinch (Agraphospiza rubescens)
赤条条	chi	tiao	stark naked
赤水市	chi	shi	Chishui, a county-level city in Zunyi City 遵義市|遵义市[Zun1 yi4 Shi4], Guizhou
赤水河	chi	he	Chishui River, tributary of Wei in Shaanxi
赤睛鱼	chi	yu	rudd
赤红山椒鸟	chi	niao	(bird species of China) scarlet minivet (Pericrocotus speciosus)
赤翅沙雀	chi	que	(bird species of China) Eurasian crimson-winged finch (Rhodopechys sanguineus)
赤翡翠	chi	cui	(bird species of China) ruddy kingfisher (Halcyon coromanda)
赤胆忠心	chi	xin	lit. red-bellied devotion (idiom); wholehearted loyalty; to serve sb with body and soul
赤胸啄木鸟	chi	niao	(bird species of China) crimson-naped woodpecker; crimson-breasted woodpecker (Dryobates cathpharius)
赤胸拟啄木鸟	chi	niao	(bird species of China) coppersmith barbet (Psilopogon haemacephalus)
赤胸朱顶雀	chi	que	(bird species of China) common linnet (Linaria cannabina)
赤胸鸫	chi	dong	(bird species of China) brown-headed thrush (Turdus chrysolaus)
赤脚医生	chi	sheng	barefoot doctor; farmer with paramedical training (PRC)
赤脚律师	chi	shi	barefoot lawyer; grassroots lawyer
赤腹鹰	chi	ying	(bird species of China) Chinese sparrowhawk (Accipiter soloensis)
赤膀鸭	chi	ya	(bird species of China) gadwall (Mareca strepera)
赤膊上阵	chi	zhen	lit. to go into battle bare-breasted (idiom); fig. to go all out; to come out in the open
赤藓糖醇	chi	chun	erythritol, a sugar alcohol
赤藓醇	chi	chun	erythritol, a sugar alcohol
赤裸裸	chi	luo	bare; naked; (fig.) plain
赤褐色	chi	se	russet; reddish brown
赤诚相待	chi	dai	to treat utterly sincerely; open and above board in dealing with sb
赤诚相见	chi	jian	candidly sharing confidences
赤贫如洗	chi	xi	without two nickels to rub together (idiom); impoverished
赤身露体	chi	ti	completely naked
赤道仪	chi	yi	equatorial mount (for a telescope)
赤道几内亚	chi	ya	Equatorial Guinea
赤道逆流	chi	liu	equatorial counter current
赤道雨林	chi	lin	equatorial rain forest
赤铁矿	chi	kuang	hematite (red iron ore); ferric oxide Fe2O3
赤霞珠	chi	zhu	Cabernet Sauvignon (grape type)
赤颈鸫	chi	dong	(bird species of China) red-throated thrush (Turdus ruficollis)
赤颈鸭	chi	ya	(bird species of China) Eurasian wigeon (Mareca penelope)
赤颈鹤	chi	he	(bird species of China) sarus crane (Antigone antigone)
赤麻鸭	chi	ya	(bird species of China) ruddy shelduck (Tadorna ferruginea)
赫伯斯翼龙	he	long	Herbstosaurus (genus of pterosaur)
赫伯特	he	te	Herbert (name)
赫兹龙	he	long	Hezron (name)
赫卡忒	he	te	Hecate (goddess of Greek mythology)
赫哲族	he	zu	Hezhen ethnic group
赫哲语	he	yu	Hezhen language (of Hezhen ethnic group of Heilongjiang province)
赫图阿拉	he	la	Hetu Ala (Manchu: Yellow Rock), Nurhaci's capital at the 1619 Battle of Sarhu
赫塞哥维纳	he	na	(Tw) Herzegovina
赫奇帕奇	he	qi	Hufflepuff (Harry Potter)
赫尔墨斯	he	si	Hermes (Greek god)
赫尔曼	he	man	Herman or Hermann (name)
赫尔曼德	he	de	Helmand (name); Helmand province of south Afghanistan, capital Lashkar Gah
赫尔穆特	he	te	Helmut (name)
赫尔辛基	he	ji	Helsinki (Swedish Helsingfors), capital of Finland
赫山区	he	qu	Heshan, a district of Yiyang City 益陽市|益阳市[Yi4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
赫拉克利特	he	te	Heraclitus (535-475 BC), pre-Socratic philosopher
赫拉特	he	te	Herat (city in Afghanistan)
赫拉特省	he	sheng	Herat province of Afghanistan
赫斯提亚	he	ya	Hestia (goddess of Greek mythology)
赫氏角鹰	he	ying	see 鷹鵰|鹰雕[ying1 diao1]
赫特河公国	he	guo	Principality of Hutt River (formerly Hutt River Province)
赫福特郡	he	jun	Hertfordshire (English county)
赫章县	he	xian	Hezhang, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
赫罗图	he	tu	(astronomy) Hertzsprung-Russell diagram
赫耳墨斯	he	si	Hermes, in Greek mythology, messenger of the Gods
赫胥黎	he	li	Huxley (name); Thomas Henry Huxley (1825-1895), British evolutionary scientist and champion of Darwin; Aldous Huxley (1894-1963), British novelist
赫芬顿邮报	he	bao	Huffington Post (US online news aggregator)
赫赫有名	he	ming	illustrious; prominent; prestigious
赫鲁晓夫	he	fu	Nikita Khrushchev (1894–1971), secretary-general of Soviet Communist Party 1953–1964
赫鲁雪夫	he	fu	see 赫魯曉夫|赫鲁晓夫[He4 lu3 xiao3 fu5]
赭红尾鸲	zhe	qu	(bird species of China) black redstart (Phoenicurus ochruros)
走下坡	zou	po	(fig.) to decline; to deteriorate; to go downhill
走下坡路	zou	lu	to go downhill; to decline; to slump
走为上	zou	shang	see 三十六計，走為上策|三十六计，走为上策[san1 shi2 liu4 ji4 , zou3 wei2 shang4 ce4]
走为上计	zou	ji	see 三十六計，走為上策|三十六计，走为上策[san1 shi2 liu4 ji4 , zou3 wei2 shang4 ce4]
走乡随乡	zou	xiang	(proverb) to follow local customs; When in Rome, do as the Romans do.
走亲戚	zou	qi	to visit relatives
走亲访友	zou	you	to visit one's friends and relatives
走偏锋	zou	feng	to write with the tip of the brush tilted; (fig.) to resort to devious means
走内线	zou	xian	insider contacts; via private channels; to seek influence with sb via family members (possibly dishonest or underhand)
走南闯北	zou	bei	to travel extensively
走后门	zou	men	(lit.) to enter through the back door; (fig.) to pull strings; to use connections; (fig.) (slang) to have anal sex
走向断层	zou	ceng	strike fault (geology)
走向滑动断层	zou	ceng	strike-slip fault (geology); fault line where the two sides slide horizontally past one another
走味儿	zou	r	erhua variant of 走味[zou3 wei4]
走回头路	zou	lu	to turn back; to backtrack; (fig.) to revert to the former way of doing things
走圆场	zou	chang	to walk around the stage (to indicate scene changes)
走地盘	zou	pan	live betting; in-play wagering
走地鸡	zou	ji	free-range chicken
走好运	zou	yun	to experience good luck
走娘家	zou	jia	(of a wife) to visit one's parental home
走弯路	zou	lu	to take an indirect route; to waste one's time by using an inappropriate method
走形儿	zou	r	out of shape; to lose shape; to deform
走形式	zou	shi	to go through the formalities
走扁带	zou	dai	slacklining
走投无路	zou	lu	to be at an impasse (idiom); in a tight spot; at the end of one's rope
走来回	zou	hui	to make a round trip; a return journey
走样儿	zou	r	to lose shape; to deform
走桃花运	zou	yun	to have luck with the ladies (idiom)
走江湖	zou	hu	to travel around the country (as itinerant peddler or entertainer)
走漏消息	zou	xi	to divulge secrets
走火入魔	zou	mo	to be obsessed with sth; to go overboard; (Buddhism, Taoism) to misguidedly focus on hallucinations that arise during meditation
走着瞧	zou	qiao	wait and see (who is right)
走神儿	zou	r	absent-minded; one's mind is wandering
走私品	zou	pin	smuggled product; contraband; pirate product
走私货	zou	huo	smuggled goods
走背字	zou	zi	to have bad luck
走背字儿	zou	r	erhua variant of 走背字[zou3 bei4 zi4]
走资派	zou	pai	capitalist roader (person in power taking the capitalist road, a political label often pinned on cadres by the Red Guards during the Cultural Revolution)
走过场	zou	chang	to go through the motions
走钢丝	zou	si	(lit. and fig.) to walk a tightrope
走门子	zou	zi	see 走門路|走门路[zou3 men2 lu4]
走门路	zou	lu	to use social connections; to toady to influential people
走马上任	zou	ren	(idiom) to take office; to assume a post
走马到任	zou	ren	see 走馬上任|走马上任[zou3 ma3 shang4 ren4]
走马灯	zou	deng	lantern with a carousel of paper horses rotating under convection, used at Lantern Festival 元宵節|元宵节[Yuan2 xiao1 jie2]; (fig.) revolving door; musical chairs (metaphor for people being shuffled around into different jobs)
走马看花	zou	hua	lit. flower viewing from horseback (idiom); fig. superficial understanding from cursory observation; to make a quick judgment based on inadequate information
走马章台	zou	tai	to go to the brothel on horseback (idiom); to visit prostitutes
走马观花	zou	hua	lit. flower viewing from horseback (idiom); a fleeting glance in passing; fig. superficial understanding from cursory observation; to make a quick judgment based on inadequate information
走马赴任	zou	ren	see 走馬上任|走马上任[zou3 ma3 shang4 ren4]
赴汤蹈火	fu	huo	lit. to jump into scalding water and plunge into raging fire (idiom); fig. to brave any danger; to go to any lengths (for a noble cause)
赴阴曹	fu	cao	to enter hell
赵乐际	zhao	ji	Zhao Leji (1957-), member of the Politburo Standing Committee and Secretary of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection
赵元任	zhao	ren	Yuen Ren Chao (1892-1982), Chinese-American linguist
赵公元帅	zhao	shuai	Marshal Zhao, aka Zhao Gongming or Zhao Xuantan, God of Wealth in the Chinese folk tradition and Taoism
赵公明	zhao	ming	Zhao Gongming, God of Wealth in the Chinese folk tradition and Taoism
赵匡胤	zhao	yin	Zhao Kuangyin, personal name of founding Song emperor Song Taizu 宋太祖 (927-976)
赵子龙	zhao	long	courtesy name of Zhao Yun 趙雲|赵云[Zhao4 Yun2], general of Shu in Romance of the Three Kingdoms
赵家人	zhao	ren	(neologism 2015) the Zhao family (derogatory term for those who hold power in the PRC)
赵尔巽	zhao	xun	Zhao Erxun (1844-1927), modern historian, compiled the Draft History of the Qing dynasty 清史稿
赵州桥	zhao	qiao	Zhaozhou Bridge over Xiao River 洨河[Xiao2 He2] in Zhao county 趙縣|赵县[Zhao4 Xian4], Shijiazhuang, Hebei, dating back to the Sui dynasty 隋代[Sui2 dai4] (581-617) and the world's oldest extant stone arch bridge
赵忠尧	zhao	yao	Zhao Zhongyao (1902-1998), Chinese pioneer nuclear physicist
赵惠文王	zhao	wang	King Huiwen of Zhao 趙國|赵国, reigned 298-266 BC during the Warring States Period
赵本山	zhao	shan	Zhao Benshan (1958-), universally known PRC TV comedian
赵树理	zhao	li	Zhao Shuli (1906-1970), proletarian novelist
赵玄坛	zhao	tan	Zhao Xuantan, God of Wealth in the Chinese folk tradition and Taoism
赵紫阳	zhao	yang	Zhao Ziyang (1919-2005), PRC reforming politician, general secretary of Chinese Communist Party 1987-1989, held under house arrest from 1989 to his death, and non-person since then
赶不上	gan	shang	can't keep up with; can't catch up with; cannot overtake
赶不及	gan	ji	not enough time (to do sth); too late (to do sth)
赶前不赶后	gan	hou	(saying) better to act early than rush later
赶尽杀绝	gan	jue	to kill to the last one (idiom); to exterminate; to eradicate
赶得及	gan	ji	to have enough time (to do sth); to be able to make it (in time)
赶时间	gan	jian	to be in a hurry
赶时髦	gan	mao	to keep up with the latest fashion
赶明儿	gan	r	(coll.) some day; one of these days
赶浪头	gan	tou	to follow the trend
赶英超美	gan	mei	to catch up with England and surpass the USA (economic goal)
赶鸭子上架	gan	jia	lit. to drive a duck onto a perch (idiom); fig. to push sb to do sth way beyond their ability
起云剂	qi	ji	clouding agent; emulsifier
起作用	qi	yong	to have an effect; to play a role; to be operative
起动钮	qi	niu	starter button; on switch
起司蛋糕	qi	gao	cheesecake
起名儿	qi	r	erhua variant of 起名[qi3 ming2]
起士蛋糕	qi	gao	cheesecake
起小儿	qi	r	erhua variant of 起小[qi3 xiao3]
起居作息	qi	xi	lit. rising and lying down, working and resting (idiom); fig. everyday life; daily routine; to go about one's daily life
起居室	qi	shi	living room; sitting room
起居间	qi	jian	living room
起床号	qi	hao	reveille
起床气	qi	qi	grumpiness resulting from poor sleep; irritability in the morning
起征点	qi	dian	tax threshold
起扑杆	qi	gan	chipper (golf)
起承转合	qi	he	(idiom) four-part structure of a composition: introduction, elucidation, pivot (shift in perspective), synthesis; (fig.) coherent structural progression in writing, narrative, or any unfolding process
起拍价	qi	jia	starting bid; starting price (at an auction)
起搏器	qi	qi	pacemaker (medical device)
起早摸黑	qi	hei	see 起早貪黑|起早贪黑[qi3 zao3 tan1 hei1]
起早贪黑	qi	hei	to be industrious, rising early and going to bed late
起步价	qi	jia	starting price; base fare (for a taxi trip, construction project etc)
起死回生	qi	sheng	to rise from the dead (idiom); fig. an unexpected recovery
起泡沫	qi	mo	to emit bubbles; to bubble; to foam (with rage)
起点线	qi	xian	starting line
起电机	qi	ji	electrostatic generator
起皱纹	qi	wen	to shrivel
起落场	qi	chang	airfield; takeoff and landing strip
起落架	qi	jia	(aviation) landing gear; undercarriage
起落装置	qi	zhi	aircraft takeoff and landing gear
起诉书	qi	shu	indictment (law); statement of charges (law)
起诉员	qi	yuan	prosecutor
起诉者	qi	zhe	(law) plaintiff (in a civil case); prosecutor (in a criminal case)
起跑线	qi	xian	the starting line (of a race); scratch line (in a relay race)
起造员	qi	yuan	draftsman; draughtsman
起重机	qi	ji	crane
起重葫芦	qi	lu	hoist pulley
起钉器	qi	qi	staple remover
起钉锤	qi	chui	claw hammer
起飞弹射	qi	she	takeoff catapult (on aircraft carrier)
趁人之危	chen	wei	to take advantage of sb's difficulties (idiom)
趁早儿	chen	r	erhua variant of 趁早[chen4 zao3]
趁火打劫	chen	jie	(lit.) to loot a burning house (idiom); (fig.) to take advantage of sb's misfortune
趁热打铁	chen	tie	to strike while the iron is hot
超临界	chao	jie	supercritical
超乎寻常	chao	chang	out of the ordinary; exceptional
超前意识	chao	shi	foresight
超前消费	chao	fei	excessive consumption; spending beyond one's means
超前瞄准	chao	zhun	to aim in front of a moving target
超博士	chao	shi	(Tw) postdoc; postdoctoral fellow
超友谊关系	chao	xi	relationship that is more than friendship
超国民待遇	chao	yu	(law) privileges granted to foreigners exceeding those accorded to nationals of the host country (cf. 國民待遇|国民待遇[guo2 min2 dai4 yu4], national treatment)
超基性岩	chao	yan	ultrabasic rock (geology, rock containing less than 45 percent silicates)
超声扫描	chao	miao	ultrasonic scan
超声波	chao	bo	ultrasound (scan)
超声波检查	chao	cha	echography; ultrasound scan
超媒体	chao	ti	hypermedia
超对称	chao	chen	supersymmetry
超导体	chao	ti	(physics) superconductor
超导电体	chao	ti	(physics) superconductor
超导电性	chao	xing	(physics) superconductivity
超常发挥	chao	hui	to outdo oneself; to perform exceptionally well
超平面	chao	mian	hyperplane (math.)
超敏反应	chao	ying	hypersensitivity
超文件	chao	jian	hypertext
超文件传输协定	chao	ding	hypertext transfer protocol; HTTP
超文本	chao	ben	hypertext
超文本传输协定	chao	ding	hypertext transfer protocol; HTTP
超文本传送协议	chao	yi	hypertext transfer protocol (HTTP)
超文本标记语言	chao	yan	hypertext markup language; HTML
超新星	chao	xing	(astronomy) supernova; (fig.) breakout star
超泛神论	chao	lun	panentheism, theological theory of God as equal to the Universe while transcending it
超物理	chao	li	surpassing the physical world; metaphysical
超现实	chao	shi	surreal; surrealistic
超现实主义	chao	yi	surrealism
超短波	chao	bo	ultra short wave (radio); UHF
超短裙	chao	qun	miniskirt
超级传播者	chao	zhe	super spreader (epidemiology)
超级名模	chao	mo	supermodel
超级大国	chao	guo	superpower (nation)
超级市场	chao	chang	supermarket
超级强国	chao	guo	superpower
超级月亮	chao	liang	supermoon
超级杯	chao	bei	Super Cup (various sports); Super Bowl (American football championship game)
超级电脑	chao	nao	(Tw) supercomputer
超级碗	chao	wan	Super Bowl (American football championship game)
超级细菌	chao	jun	superbug
超级英雄	chao	xiong	superhero
超级计算	chao	suan	supercomputing
超级计算机	chao	ji	supercomputer
超级跑车	chao	che	supercar; abbr. to 超跑|超跑[chao1 pao3]
超级链接	chao	jie	hyperlink (in HTML)
超经验	chao	yan	extra-empirical; outside one's experience
超维空间	chao	jian	hyperspace; superspace; higher dimensional space
超群绝伦	chao	lun	outstanding (idiom); incomparable
超能力	chao	li	superpower; superhuman power
超自然	chao	ran	supernatural
超负荷	chao	he	excess load; an overload; overloaded
超越主义	chao	yi	transcendentalism
超越数	chao	shu	transcendental number (math.)
超距作用	chao	yong	action at a distance (e.g. gravitational force)
超连结	chao	jie	(Tw) hyperlink
超重氢	chao	qing	(chemistry) tritium
超链接	chao	jie	hyperlink
超链结	chao	jie	(Tw) hyperlink
超限战	chao	zhan	unrestricted warfare (originally the title of a Chinese book published in 1999, later used to refer to war by any means, military or non-military, including cyberwarfare, economic warfare etc)
超雄综合征	chao	zheng	XYY syndrome
超音波	chao	bo	ultrasound; ultrasonic wave
超音速	chao	su	supersonic
超额利润	chao	run	superprofit; excess profit
超额订购	chao	gou	to overbook
超额认购	chao	gou	(a share issue is) oversubscribed
超额配股权	chao	quan	an oversubscribed share
超验主义	chao	yi	transcendentalism
超高速	chao	su	ultra high speed
越俎代庖	yue	pao	lit. to go beyond the sacrificial altar and take over the kitchen (idiom); fig. to exceed one's place and meddle in other people's affairs; to take matters into one's own hands
越光米	yue	mi	Koshihikari rice (variety of rice popular in Japan)
越南刺鳑鲏	yue	pi	Acanthorhodeus tonkinensis Vaillant (small carp)
越南战争	yue	zheng	Vietnam War (1955-1975)
越南文	yue	wen	Vietnamese written language; Vietnamese literature
越南民主共和国	yue	guo	Democratic Republic of Vietnam (aka North Vietnam), a country in Southeast Asia 1945-1976
越南盾	yue	dun	Vietnamese dong (currency)
越南语	yue	yu	Vietnamese language, Tiếng Việt
越城区	yue	qu	Yuecheng, a district of Shaoxing City 紹興市|绍兴市[Shao4 xing1 Shi4], Zhejiang
越城岭	yue	ling	Yuecheng mountain range between south Hunan and Guangxi
越帮越忙	yue	mang	to be officious; to kibitz; to be meddlesome
越描越黑	yue	hei	lit. the more you touch things up, the darker they get; fig. to only make matters worse
越来越	yue	yue	more and more
越演越烈	yue	lie	to be intensifying; to be getting worse and worse; to start to run rampant
越狱犯	yue	fan	escaped prisoner
越王勾践	yue	jian	King Gou Jian of Yue (c. 470 BC), sometimes considered one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
越秀区	yue	qu	Yuexiu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
越西县	yue	xian	Yuexi, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
越野赛跑	yue	pao	cross-country running
越野跑	yue	pao	cross country running
越野车	yue	che	off-road vehicle
越陷越深	yue	shen	to fall deeper and deeper (in debt, in love etc)
趋之若鹜	qu	wu	to rush like ducks (idiom); the mob scrabbles madly for sth unobtainable; an unruly crowd on a wild goose chase
趋利避害	qu	hai	(idiom) to make the most of the benefits while avoiding adverse effects
趋化作用	qu	yong	chemotaxis (movement of leukocytes under chemical stimulus)
趋吉避凶	qu	xiong	to seek luck and avoid calamity (idiom)
趋同进化	qu	hua	(biology) convergent evolution
趋炎附势	qu	shi	to curry favor (idiom); playing up to those in power; social climbing
趑趄不前	zi	qian	hesitant and not daring to move forward (idiom)
趑趄嗫嚅	zi	ru	faltering steps, mumbling speech (idiom); hesitant; cringing; to cower
趟浑水	tang	shui	(fig.) to get involved in an unsavory enterprise
趣多多	qu	duo	Chips Ahoy! (brand)
趦趄嗫嚅	zi	ru	faltering steps; mumbling speech; hesitant
足不出户	zu	hu	(idiom) to not leave one's home; to stay indoors
足利义政	zu	zheng	ASHIKAGA Yoshimasa (1435-1490), eighth Ashikaga shōgun, reigned 1449-1473
足利义满	zu	man	ASHIKAGA Yoshimitsu (1358-1408), third Ashikaga shogun, reigned 1368-1394
足利义稙	zu	zhi	Ashikaga Yoshitane (1466-1523), Japanese Muromachi shogun 1490-93
足协杯	zu	bei	soccer association cup
足尖鞋	zu	xie	(ballet) pointe shoe
足底筋膜炎	zu	yan	plantar fasciitis (medicine)
足智多谋	zu	mou	resourceful; full of stratagems
足球协会	zu	hui	soccer association; soccer federation
足球场	zu	chang	football field; soccer field
足球赛	zu	sai	soccer match; soccer competition
足球迷	zu	mi	football fan
足球队	zu	dui	soccer team
趴趴走	pa	zou	(Tw) to wander about; to roam around freely (from Taiwanese 拋拋走, Tai-lo pr. [pha-pha-tsáu])
趾高气扬	zhi	yang	high and mighty (idiom); arrogant
趿拉儿	ta	r	heelless slipper; babouche
跃然纸上	yue	shang	to appear vividly on paper (idiom); to show forth vividly (in writing, painting etc); to stand out markedly
跃跃欲试	yue	shi	to be eager to give sth a try (idiom)
跆拳道	tai	dao	taekwondo (Korean martial art)
跋前疐后	ba	hou	see 跋胡疐尾[ba2 hu2 zhi4 wei3]
跋前踬后	ba	hou	see 跋胡疐尾[ba2 hu2 zhi4 wei3]
跋山涉水	ba	shui	to travel over land and water (idiom)
跋胡疐尾	ba	wei	(idiom, from Book of Songs) unable to advance or retreat
跌停板	die	ban	daily lower limit on the price of a stock
跌宕昭彰	die	zhang	flowing (of prose); free
跌打损伤	die	shang	injury such as contusion, sprain or fracture from falling, blow etc
跌打药	die	yao	liniment
跌眼镜	die	jing	to be taken aback
跌破眼镜	die	jing	(fig.) to be astounded
跌脚捶胸	die	xiong	lit. stamping and beating the chest (idiom); fig. angry or stressed about sth
跌至谷底	die	di	to hit rock bottom (idiom)
跌跌撞撞	die	zhuang	to stagger along
跌跌爬爬	die	pa	stumbling along
跌跌跄跄	die	qiang	to dodder along
跑业务	pao	wu	(of a salesperson) to visit potential customers with the aim of selling products or services
跑了和尚跑不了寺	pao	si	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom); you can run this time, but you'll have to come back; I'll get you sooner or later
跑了和尚跑不了庙	pao	miao	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom); you can run this time, but you'll have to come back; I'll get you sooner or later
跑味儿	pao	r	to lose flavor
跑垒员	pao	yuan	runner (in baseball)
跑堂儿的	pao	de	waiter
跑得了和尚跑不了庙	pao	miao	the monk can run away, but the temple won't run with him (idiom); you can run this time, but you'll have to come back; I'll get you sooner or later
跑来跑去	pao	qu	to scamper; to run around
跑步机	pao	ji	treadmill; running machine
跑步者	pao	zhe	runner
跑江湖	pao	hu	to make a living as a traveling performer etc
跑神儿	pao	r	absent-minded; one's mind is wandering
跑腿儿	pao	r	to run errands
跑腿子	pao	zi	(dialect) to live as a bachelor; bachelor
跑警报	pao	bao	to run for shelter
跑跑颠颠	pao	dian	to work hectically; to be on the go; to run around attending to various tasks
跑马厅	pao	ting	horse racing track; racetrack
跑马圈地	pao	di	rushing to stake one's claim in new markets (idiom)
跑马地	pao	di	Happy Valley (suburb of Hong Kong)
跑马场	pao	chang	racecourse
跑马山	pao	shan	Paoma Mountain in Kangding 康定[Kang1 ding4], Sichuan
跑马灯	pao	deng	lantern with a carousel of paper horses rotating under convection, used at Lantern Festival 元宵節|元宵节[Yuan2 xiao1 jie2]; chaser lights; self-scrolling horizontal text display, such as a news ticker
跑龙套	pao	tao	to play a small role
距离产生美	ju	mei	absence makes the heart grow fonder
距翅麦鸡	ju	ji	(bird species of China) river lapwing (Vanellus duvaucelii)
跟不上	gen	shang	not able to keep up with
跟团游	gen	you	to travel in a tour group
跟头虫	gen	chong	wriggler; mosquito larva
跟屁股	gen	gu	to tag along behind; to follow sb closely
跟屁虫	gen	chong	lit. bum beetle; sb who tags along; shadow
跟踪器	gen	qi	tracker (device)
跟踪狂	gen	kuang	stalker
跟踪骚扰	gen	rao	(law) to stalk (sb)
跨国公司	kua	si	transnational corporation; multinational corporation
跨国化	kua	hua	to internationalize; to globalize
跨地区	kua	qu	interregional; spanning two or more PRC provinces
跨学科	kua	ke	interdisciplinary
跨平台	kua	tai	(computing) cross-platform
跨性别	kua	bie	transgender
跨接器	kua	qi	jumper (electronics)
跨文化	kua	hua	intercultural
跨海大桥	kua	qiao	bay bridge (elevated bridge across stretch of water)
跨线桥	kua	qiao	flyover (road bridge)
跨语言	kua	yan	cross-language; polyglot
跨越式	kua	shi	breakthrough; going beyond; leap-forward
跨领域	kua	yu	interdisciplinary
跨鹤西游	kua	you	to die
跪地求饶	gui	rao	to kneel and beg forgiveness
路不拾遗	lu	yi	lit. no one picks up lost articles in the street (idiom); fig. honesty prevails throughout society
路人甲	lu	jia	ordinary person A; generic person; some random person
路人皆知	lu	zhi	understood by everyone (idiom); well known; a household name
路加福音	lu	yin	Gospel according to St Luke
路北区	lu	qu	Lubei, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
路南区	lu	qu	Lunan, a district of Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
路南彝族自治县	lu	xian	Lunan Yizu Autonomous County in Yunnan
路径依赖	lu	lai	path dependence
路得记	lu	ji	Book of Ruth
路德会	lu	hui	Lutheran church
路德宗	lu	zong	Lutheran church
路德维希	lu	xi	Ludwig (name)
路德维希港	lu	gang	Ludwigshafen am Rhein, German city on the Rhine opposite Mannheim
路德雀鹛	lu	mei	(bird species of China) brown-throated fulvetta; Ludlow's fulvetta (Fulvetta ludlowi)
路怒症	lu	zheng	road rage
路易威登	lu	deng	Louis Vuitton (brand)
路易斯	lu	si	(name) Louis; Lewis; Luis
路易斯安那	lu	na	Louisiana, US state
路易港	lu	gang	Port Louis, capital of Mauritius
路桥区	lu	qu	Luqiao, a district of Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
路沙卡	lu	ka	Lusaka, capital of Zambia (Tw)
路由协定	lu	ding	routing protocol
路由协议	lu	yi	routing protocols
路由器	lu	qi	router (computing)
路码表	lu	biao	odometer
路线图	lu	tu	route map; (lit. and fig.) roadmap
路西弗	lu	fu	Lucifer (Satan's name before his fall in Jewish and Christian mythology)
路西法	lu	fa	Lucifer (Satan's name before his fall in Jewish and Christian mythology)
路见不平拔刀相助	lu	zhu	lit. to intervene when one sees an injustice (idiom); fig. to rush to the rescue; to play the white knight
路转粉	lu	fen	(Internet slang) to go from being indifferent to being a big fan
路边摊	lu	tan	roadside stall
路透社	lu	she	Reuters News Agency
路透集团	lu	tuan	Reuters group plc
路途遥远	lu	yuan	it's a very long journey to get there
路队长	lu	zhang	schoolchild leader responsible for leading and maintaining order in a procession of schoolchildren along public streets
路面电车	lu	che	(Tw) tram; streetcar
跳一只脚	tiao	jiao	to hop on one leg
跳出火坑	tiao	keng	lit. to jump out of a fire pit (idiom); to escape from a living hell; to free oneself from a life of torture
跳台滑雪	tiao	xue	ski jumping
跳大神	tiao	shen	(of a shaman) to dance and chant frenziedly in a trance, communicating with spirits or deities to expel evil, cure illness or pray for blessings
跳房子	tiao	zi	hopscotch; to play hopscotch
跳梁小丑	tiao	chou	(idiom) clownish troublemaker; contemptible buffoon
跳楼价	tiao	jia	extremely low price; knockdown price
跳楼机	tiao	ji	drop tower; free fall tower (amusement ride)
跳皮筋	tiao	jin	to play rubber band jump rope
跳级生	tiao	sheng	student who jumps a year
跳蚤市场	tiao	chang	flea market
跳跳糖	tiao	tang	Pop Rocks; popping candy
跳进黄河洗不清	tiao	qing	lit. even jumping into the Yellow River can't get you clean; fig. to become inexorably mixed up; mired in controversy
跳集体舞	tiao	wu	to do ensemble dancing; to dance in a group
跷跷板	qiao	ban	see-saw
踌躇不决	chou	jue	to hesitate; indecisive
踌躇不前	chou	qian	to hesitate to move forward; to hesitate; to hold back
踌躇满志	chou	zhi	enormously proud of one's success (idiom); smug; complacent
踏板摩托车	ta	che	scooter
踏板车	ta	che	scooter
踏步不前	ta	qian	to be at a standstill; to mark time
踏破铁鞋	ta	xie	(lit.) to wear out one's iron shoes (idiom); (fig.) to search high and low
踏破门槛	ta	kan	to wear out the doorstep (idiom); to crowd at sb's door
踏踏实实	ta	shi	steady; steadfast
踏雪寻梅	ta	mei	to walk in the snow to view the flowering plum
踏雪板	ta	ban	snowshoe
踏青赏春	ta	chun	to enjoy a beautiful spring walk (idiom)
踏青赏花	ta	hua	to enjoy the flowers on a spring outing (idiom)
踟蹰不前	chi	qian	hesitant to take action
踢皮球	ti	qiu	to kick a ball around; (fig.) to mutually shirk responsibility; to pass the buck
踢脚板	ti	ban	baseboard; skirting board
踢脚线	ti	xian	skirting board
踢踏舞	ti	wu	tap dance
踢蹋舞	ti	wu	tap dance; step dance
踢马刺	ti	ci	horse spur
踩刹车	cai	che	to step on the brake; to brake (when driving)
踩失脚	cai	jiao	to lose one's footing
踩线团	cai	tuan	group on a tour to get acquainted with the local situation
踩高跷	cai	qiao	to walk on stilts
踮脚尖	dian	jian	to stand on tiptoe
踱方步	duo	bu	to pace; to stroll
踽踽独行	ju	xing	to walk alone (idiom)
蹈常袭故	dao	gu	follow the same old path (idiom); stuck in a rut; always the same routine
蹑悄悄	nie	qiao	softly; quietly
蹑手蹑脚	nie	jiao	to walk quietly on tiptoe (idiom)
蹑着脚	nie	jiao	to tiptoe
蹑脚根	nie	gen	variant of 躡腳跟|蹑脚跟[nie4 jiao3 gen1]
蹑脚跟	nie	gen	to walk cautiously in order not to make noise
蹒跚不前	pan	qian	to falter; to stall
蹚浑水	tang	shui	variant of 趟渾水|趟浑水[tang1 hun2 shui3]
蹦出来	beng	lai	to crop up; to pop up; to emerge abruptly
蹦蹦儿车	beng	che	motor tricycle (onom. bang-bang car)
蹦蹦跳跳	beng	tiao	bouncing and vivacious
蹦高儿	beng	r	erhua variant of 蹦高[beng4 gao1]
蹬鼻子上脸	deng	lian	lit. to climb all over sb; fig. to take advantage of sb's weakness
蹭吃蹭喝	ceng	he	to cadge a meal
蹭热度	ceng	du	(coll.) (often derog.) to piggyback on (sb's) popularity; to exploit (sb's) popularity to attract attention to oneself
蹲便器	dun	qi	squat toilet
蹲大牢	dun	lao	to be behind bars
蹲苦窑	dun	yao	(slang) to be behind bars
蹲马步	dun	bu	to do a martial-art squat
蹿房越脊	cuan	ji	lit. to leap the house and cross the roofridge (idiom); dashing over rooftops (of robbers and pursuing knight-errant 俠客|侠客 in fiction)
躁狂抑郁症	zao	zheng	manic depression
躁狂症	zao	zheng	mania; manic episode
躁郁症	zao	zheng	bipolar disorder
身不由主	shen	zhu	see 身不由己[shen1 bu4 you2 ji3]
身不由己	shen	ji	(idiom) (of one's circumstances) beyond one's control; unable to do anything about it; (of one's actions) not subject to conscious control (i.e. done in spite of oneself)
身临其境	shen	jing	(idiom) to experience it for oneself; to actually *be* there (as opposed to reading about it etc)
身份卡	shen	ka	identity card; ID card
身份政治	shen	zhi	identity politics
身份盗窃	shen	qie	identity theft
身份证	shen	zheng	identity card; ID
身份证号码	shen	ma	I.D. number
身份证明	shen	ming	ID card; proof of identity
身份识别卡	shen	ka	identification card; ID card
身体力行	shen	xing	to practice what one preaches (idiom)
身体是革命的本钱	shen	qian	lit. the body is the revolution's capital; fig. good health is a prerequisite for work (Mao Zedong's saying)
身体检查	shen	cha	see 體格檢查|体格检查[ti3 ge2 jian3 cha2]
身体质量指数	shen	shu	body mass index (BMI)
身先士卒	shen	zu	to fight at the head of one's troops; (fig.) to take the lead
身先朝露	shen	lu	body will go with the morning dew (idiom); fig. ephemeral and precarious nature of human existence
身分证	shen	zheng	variant of 身份證|身份证[shen1 fen4 zheng4]
身分证号码	shen	ma	variant of 身份證號碼|身份证号码[shen1 fen4 zheng4 hao4 ma3]; I.D. number
身历声	shen	sheng	(Tw) stereophonic sound
身后事	shen	shi	matters to attend to after sb's death (esp. funeral arrangements)
身在曹营心在汉	shen	han	live in Cao camp but have the heart in Han camp (idiom); to be somewhere while longing to be somewhere else
身在福中不知福	shen	fu	to live in plenty without appreciating it (idiom); not to know when one is well off
身外之物	shen	wu	mere worldly possessions
身子骨	shen	gu	(coll.) physique; physical constitution; health
身家调查	shen	cha	to do a background check on sb
身强力壮	shen	zhuang	strong and vigorous; sturdy; robust
身心交病	shen	bing	worn out in body and soul (idiom)
身心交瘁	shen	cui	worn out in body and soul (idiom)
身心俱疲	shen	pi	physically and emotionally exhausted
身心爽快	shen	kuai	refreshment
身心科	shen	ke	psychiatry
身心障碍	shen	ai	disability
身怀六甲	shen	jia	to be pregnant (idiom)
身手敏捷	shen	jie	agile; nimble; deft
身披羽毛	shen	mao	feathered
身教胜于言教	shen	jiao	teaching by example beats explaining in words (idiom); action speaks louder than words
身无分文	shen	wen	(idiom) penniless; completely broke
身无长技	shen	ji	to possess no special talents
身无长物	shen	wu	(idiom) to possess nothing except bare necessities; to live a frugal life
身板儿	shen	r	erhua variant of 身板[shen1 ban3]
身正不怕影子斜	shen	xie	(lit.) when a man stands straight, he doesn't worry that his shadow is slanting (saying); (fig.) as long as one conducts oneself honorably, one need not worry about what people think; a clean hand wants no washing
身经百战	shen	zhan	lit. veteran of a hundred battles (idiom); fig. experienced; seasoned
身负重伤	shen	shang	seriously injured
身败名裂	shen	lie	to lose one's standing; to have one's reputation swept away; a complete defeat and fall from grace
身轻如燕	shen	yan	as lithe as a swallow (of athlete or beautiful girl)
身陷囹圄	shen	yu	thrown into prison; behind bars
身陷牢狱	shen	yu	to go to prison; to be imprisoned
身陷牢笼	shen	long	fallen into a trap
身首异处	shen	chu	to be decapitated (idiom)
身高马大	shen	da	tall; huge
躲清闲	duo	xian	to avoid external disturbance in order to idle
躲猫猫	duo	mao	hide-and-seek (game); peekaboo (game)
躲躲藏藏	duo	cang	to be in hiding
躲躲闪闪	duo	shan	to evade; to dodge (out of the way)
躲过初一躲不过十五	duo	wu	see 躲得過初一，躲不過十五|躲得过初一，躲不过十五[duo3 de5 guo4 chu1 yi1 , duo3 bu4 guo4 shi2 wu3]
躲避球	duo	qiu	dodgeball
躺着也中枪	tang	qiang	(Internet slang) (lit.) to get shot even though lying down; (fig.) to be unfairly targeted
车份儿	che	r	erhua variant of 車份|车份[che1 fen4]
车到山前必有路	che	lu	lit. when we get to the mountain, there'll be a way through (idiom); fig. everything will turn out for the best; let's worry about it when it happens; it will be all right on the night
车到山前自有路	che	lu	see 車到山前必有路|车到山前必有路[che1 dao4 shan1 qian2 bi4 you3 lu4]
车前草	che	cao	see 車前|车前[che1 qian2]
车厘子	che	zi	(loanword) sweet cherry
车后箱	che	xiang	car boot, trunk
车头灯	che	deng	(vehicle) headlight
车头相	che	xiang	photo attached to the front of a hearse in a funeral procession
车尔尼雪夫斯基	che	ji	Nikolai Chernyshevsky
车把式	che	shi	expert cart-driver; charioteer
车水马龙	che	long	endless stream of horse and carriages (idiom); heavy traffic
车管所	che	suo	vehicle administration office; motor vehicle registration office (abbr. for 車輛管理所|车辆管理所[che1 liang4 guan3 li3 suo3])
车行通道	che	dao	traffic passage
车行道	che	dao	roadway; carriageway
车轮子	che	zi	wheel
车轮战	che	zhan	tactic of several persons or groups taking turns to fight one opponent; tag-team attack
车轮饼	che	bing	imagawayaki (sweet snack made of batter cooked in the shape of a car wheel, stuffed with azuki bean paste or other fillings)
车轴草	che	cao	honewort; Cryptotaenia japonica
车载斗量	che	liang	lit. measured in cartloads and gallons; fig. by the barrowload (i.e. lots and lots); innumerable
车里雅宾斯克	che	ke	Chelyabinsk town on the eastern flanks of Ural, on trans-Siberian railway
车顶架	che	jia	roof rack
轧染机	ya	ji	pressure roller used in dyeing trough
轧花机	ya	ji	cotton gin
轧道机	ya	ji	road roller
轧道车	ya	che	trolley for inspecting rail track
轧钢厂	zha	chang	a steel rolling mill
轧钢机	zha	ji	a steel rolling mill
轧钢条	zha	tiao	steel rails
轧马路	ya	lu	to stroll around the streets (esp. of a young couple)
轨迹球	gui	qiu	trackball (computing)
轨道交通	gui	tong	metro; rapid transit; subway
轨道空间站	gui	zhan	orbital space station
轨道舱	gui	cang	orbital module
轩尼诗	xuan	shi	Hennessy (cognac)
轩然大波	xuan	bo	huge waves; (fig.) ruckus; controversy
轩轩自得	xuan	de	to be delighted with oneself
轩辕十四	xuan	si	Regulus (constellation)
轩辕氏	xuan	shi	alternative name for the Yellow Emperor 黃帝|黄帝
转一趟	zhuan	tang	to go on a trip
转义字符	zhuan	fu	(computing) escape character
转义序列	zhuan	lie	(computing) escape sequence
转会费	zhuan	fei	transfer fee; signing bonus; sign-on bonus
转入地下	zhuan	xia	to go underground; to turn to secret activities
转关系	zhuan	xi	to transfer (from one unit to another)
转动件	zhuan	jian	rotor
转动惯量	zhuan	liang	moment of inertia (mechanics)
转动轴	zhuan	zhou	axis of rotation (mechanics); spindle
转化糖	zhuan	tang	inverted sugar
转危为安	zhuan	an	to turn peril into safety (idiom); to avert a danger (esp. political or medical)
转变立场	zhuan	chang	to change positions; to shift one's ground
转向信号	zhuan	hao	turn signal (auto.); turning indicator
转向灯	zhuan	deng	vehicle turn indicator light
转向盘	zhuan	pan	steering wheel
转圜余地	zhuan	di	to have room to save a situation; margin for error (idiom)
转基因	zhuan	yin	genetic modification
转基因食品	zhuan	pin	genetically modified (GM) food
转字锁	zhuan	suo	combination lock
转学生	zhuan	sheng	transfer student
转差率	zhuan	lv	slippage rate
转弯抹角	zhuan	jiao	see 拐彎抹角|拐弯抹角[guai3 wan1 mo4 jiao3]
转悲为喜	zhuan	xi	to turn grief into happiness (idiom)
转战千里	zhuan	li	fighting everywhere over a thousand miles (idiom); constant fighting across the country; never-ending struggle
转折点	zhuan	dian	turning point; breaking point
转换器	zhuan	qi	converter; transducer
转换断层	zhuan	ceng	transform fault (geology)
转捩点	zhuan	dian	turning point
转接班机	zhuan	ji	connecting flight
转来转去	zhuan	qu	to rove around; to run around in circles; to walk back and forth
转氨基酶	zhuan	mei	amino transferase (enzyme)
转氨酶	zhuan	mei	transferase (enzyme)
转法轮	zhuan	lun	to transmit Buddhist teaching; chakram or chakka (throwing disk)
转注字	zhuan	zi	transfer character (one of the Six Methods 六書|六书 of forming Chinese characters); character with meanings influenced by other words; sometimes called mutually explanatory character
转眼之间	zhuan	jian	(idiom) in the wink of an eye; in a flash
转眼即逝	zhuan	shi	to pass in an instant; over in the twinkling of an eye
转眼间	zhuan	jian	in the blink of an eye
转瞬即逝	zhuan	shi	(idiom) fleeting; transitory
转矩臂	zhuan	bi	torque arm
转移安置	zhuan	zhi	to relocate; to evacuate
转移支付	zhuan	fu	transfer payment (payment from government or private sector for which no good or service is required in return)
转移视线	zhuan	xian	to shift one's eyes; (fig.) to shift one's attention; to divert attention
转移阵地	zhuan	di	to move one's base (of operations); to reposition; to relocate
转笔刀	zhuan	dao	pencil sharpener
转腰子	zhuan	zi	(coll.) to pace around nervously; to speak indirectly; to beat about the bush
转败为胜	zhuan	sheng	to turn defeat into victory (idiom); snatching victory from the jaws of defeat
转账卡	zhuan	ka	debit card
转车台	zhuan	tai	a turntable
转轮圣帝	zhuan	di	chakravarti raja (emperor in Hindu mythology)
转轮圣王	zhuan	wang	Chakravarti raja (Sanskrit: King of Kings); emperor in Hindu mythology
转轮手枪	zhuan	qiang	revolver (handgun)
转轮王	zhuan	wang	Chakravarti raja (Sanskrit: King of Kings); emperor in Hindu mythology
转轴儿	zhuan	r	erhua variant of 轉軸|转轴[zhuan4 zhou2]
转运栈	zhuan	zhan	storage depot on a transportation route
转运站	zhuan	zhan	distribution depot; staging post; transit center
转速表	zhuan	biao	tachometer; RPM gauge
转铃儿	zhuan	r	erhua variant of 轉鈴|转铃[zhuan4 ling2]
转面无情	zhuan	qing	to turn one's face against sb and show no mercy (idiom); to turn against a friend
轮台县	lun	xian	Luntai, a county in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
轮台古城	lun	cheng	ruins of Luntai city, archaeological site in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州, Xinjiang
轮廓线	lun	xian	outline; silhouette
轮廓鲜明	lun	ming	sharp image; clear-cut; in bold outline
轮机手	lun	shou	helmsman
轮毂罩	lun	zhao	hubcap
轮状病毒	lun	du	rotavirus
轮盘赌	lun	du	roulette
轮转机	lun	ji	merry-go-round
软件企业	ruan	ye	software company
软件包	ruan	bao	software package
软件即服务	ruan	wu	software as a service (SaaS)
软件平台	ruan	tai	software platform
软件开发	ruan	fa	software development
软件技术	ruan	shu	software technology
软件系统	ruan	tong	software system
软体业	ruan	ye	the software industry
软体动物	ruan	wu	mollusk
软刀子	ruan	zi	(lit.) the soft knife; (fig.) underhanded tactics; devious means of attack
软口盖	ruan	gai	soft palate; velum
软妹币	ruan	bi	(Internet slang) Renminbi (pun on 人民幣|人民币[ren2 min2 bi4])
软实力	ruan	li	soft power (in international relations)
软木塞	ruan	sai	a cork
软木砖	ruan	zhuan	cork tile; cork flooring
软柿子	ruan	zi	(coll.) pushover; soft touch
软泥儿	ruan	r	erhua variant of 軟泥|软泥[ruan3 ni2]
软流圈	ruan	quan	(geology) asthenosphere
软流层	ruan	ceng	(geology) asthenosphere
软甲纲	ruan	gang	Malacostraca, a large class of crustaceans
软着陆	ruan	lu	(aviation) soft landing; (economics) soft landing
软硬不吃	ruan	chi	unmoved by force or persuasion
软硬件	ruan	jian	software and hardware
软硬兼施	ruan	shi	use both carrot and stick; use gentle methods and force; an iron hand in a velvet glove
软磁盘	ruan	pan	floppy disk
软磁碟	ruan	die	floppy disk
软磨硬泡	ruan	pao	to coax and pester (idiom); to wheedle; to cajole
软组织	ruan	zhi	soft tissue
软绵绵	ruan	mian	soft; velvety; flabby
软耳朵	ruan	duo	credulous person; credulous
软脂酸	ruan	suan	palmitic acid (chemistry)
软脚虾	ruan	xia	weakling; coward
软脚蟹	ruan	xie	same as 軟腳蝦|软脚虾[ruan3 jiao3 xia1]
软腭音	ruan	yin	(linguistics) velar consonant
软足类	ruan	lei	(coll.) inkfish; octopus, squid and cuttlefish
软钉子	ruan	zi	lit. a soft nail; fig. a tactful retort or rejection
软饭男	ruan	nan	kept man
软饮料	ruan	liao	soft drink
软骨头	ruan	tou	weak, cowardly person; spineless individual
软骨病	ruan	bing	chondropathy (medicine)
软骨鱼	ruan	yu	cartilaginous fish (such as sharks and rays)
软骨鱼类	ruan	lei	cartilaginous fishes; Chondrichthyes (taxonomic class including sharks and rays)
软龈音	ruan	yin	velar sound (linguistics)
轰动一时	hong	shi	to cause a sensation (idiom)
轰动效应	hong	ying	sensational effect; wild reaction
轰炸机	hong	ji	bomber (aircraft)
轰趴馆	hong	guan	party venue (available for hire)
轰轰烈烈	hong	lie	strong; vigorous; large-scale
轴对称	zhou	chen	(geometry) axial symmetry
轴心国	zhou	guo	Axis powers (World War II)
轴承销	zhou	xiao	pin bearing
轴旋转	zhou	zhuan	to rotate about an axis; axis of rotation (math.)
轴突运输	zhou	shu	axonal transport
轶事遗闻	yi	wen	anecdote (about historical person); lost or apocryphal story
轻举妄动	qing	dong	to act blindly without thinking (idiom)
轻于鸿毛	qing	mao	light as a goose feather (idiom); trifling; unimportant
轻元素	qing	su	light element (such as hydrogen)
轻击区	qing	qu	putting green (golf)
轻击棒	qing	bang	putter (golf)
轻击球	qing	qiu	to hit the ball lightly (sport); putt (golf)
轻口薄舌	qing	she	(idiom) hasty and rude; caustic and sharp-tongued
轻嘴薄舌	qing	she	lit. light mouth, thin tongue (idiom); hasty and rude; caustic and sharp-tongued
轻型轨道交通	qing	tong	light rail; transit system (underground, at street level or elevated); streetcar
轻声细语	qing	yu	to speak softly; to whisper (idiom)
轻工业	qing	ye	light industry
轻手轻脚	qing	jiao	(idiom) (to move or do sth) softly; quietly; gently
轻描淡写	qing	xie	(idiom) to treat sth as no big deal; to downplay; to understate
轻机关枪	qing	qiang	also written 輕機槍|轻机枪; light machine gun
轻机枪	qing	qiang	light machine gun
轻武器	qing	qi	light weapon
轻水反应堆	qing	dui	light water reactor (LWR)
轻浪浮薄	qing	bo	(idiom) frivolous
轻而易举	qing	ju	easy; with no difficulty
轻裘肥马	qing	ma	lit. light furs and stout horses; fig. to live in luxury
轻言细语	qing	yu	to speak softly
轻质石油	qing	you	light petroleum (product); gasoline and diesel oil
轻质石油产品	qing	pin	light petroleum product (i.e. gasoline and diesel oil)
轻车熟路	qing	lu	lit. to drive a lightweight chariot on a familiar road (idiom); fig. to do sth routinely and with ease; a walk in the park
轻车简从	qing	cong	(of an official) to travel with little luggage and just a small escort; to travel without ostentation
轻重主次	qing	ci	to invert the importance of things (i.e. stress the incidental and neglect the main point); lacking a sense of perspective; to put the cart before the horse
轻重倒置	qing	zhi	to invert the importance of things (i.e. stress the unimportant and neglect the important); lacking a sense of perspective; to put the cart before the horse
轻重缓急	qing	ji	slight or important, urgent or non-urgent (idiom); to deal with important matters first; sense of priority
轻量级	qing	ji	lightweight (boxing etc)
轻音乐	qing	yue	light music
轻飘飘	qing	piao	light as a feather
轻饶素放	qing	fang	easily forgive, simply release (idiom); to let sb off scot free
载伯德	zai	de	Zebedee (name)
载入史册	zai	ce	to be recorded in history; to go down in history
载客车	zai	che	passenger vehicle
载客量	zai	liang	passenger capacity
载弹量	zai	liang	payload
载歌且舞	zai	wu	singing and dancing (idiom); festive celebrations
载歌载舞	zai	wu	singing and dancing (idiom); festive celebrations
载玻片	zai	pian	microscope slide
载舟覆舟	zai	zhou	to carry a boat or to overturn a boat (idiom); fig. The people can support a regime or overturn it.
载货汽车	zai	che	truck
载酒问字	zai	zi	a scholarly and inquisitive individual (idiom)
载重能力	zai	li	weight-carrying capacity
载重量	zai	liang	dead weight; weight capacity of a vehicle
较劲儿	jiao	r	erhua variant of 較勁|较劲[jiao4 jin4]
较真儿	jiao	r	erhua variant of 較真|较真[jiao4 zhen1]
较短絜长	jiao	chang	to compare long and short; to compare the pros and cons
较长絜短	jiao	duan	to compare long and short; to compare the pros and cons
辅仁大学	fu	xue	Fu Jen Catholic University of Peking (from 1925), forerunner of Beijing Normal University 北京師範大學|北京师范大学; Fu Jen Catholic University in New Taipei City, Taiwan
辅助医疗	fu	liao	complementary medicine
辅助语	fu	yu	auxiliary language
辅导人	fu	ren	tutor
辅导员	fu	yuan	student counselor (in Chinese universities)
辅导班	fu	ban	tutorial class; remedial class; preparatory course
辅导金	fu	jin	grant (Tw)
辉南县	hui	xian	Huinan, a county in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
辉县市	hui	shi	Huixian, a county-level city in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
辉格党	hui	dang	Whig Party
辉绿岩	hui	yan	diabase (geology); dolerite
辉长岩	hui	yan	gabbro (geology)
辍食吐哺	chuo	bu	to stop eating and spit out
辐射仪	fu	yi	radiation meter
辐射侦察	fu	cha	radiation detection
辐射分解	fu	jie	radiolysis
辐射剂量	fu	liang	radiation dose
辐射剂量率	fu	lv	radiation dose rate
辐射场	fu	chang	radiation field
辐射对称	fu	chen	radial symmetry
辐射强度	fu	du	radiation intensity
辐射敏感性	fu	xing	radiosensitivity
辐射散射	fu	she	radiation scattering
辐射波	fu	bo	radiation (wave); radiated wave
辐射源	fu	yuan	radiation source
辐射能	fu	neng	radiation energy (e.g. solar)
辐射警告标志	fu	zhi	radiation warning symbol
辐射计	fu	ji	radiometer
辐射防护	fu	hu	radiation protection
输不起	shu	qi	to take defeat with bad grace; to be a sore loser; cannot afford to lose
输入法	shu	fa	input method
输入系统	shu	tong	input system; data entry system
输入设备	shu	bei	input device (computer)
输出品	shu	pin	export item; product for export
输出管	shu	guan	vas efferens
输卵管	shu	guan	Fallopian tube; oviduct
输墨装置	shu	zhi	ink supply mechanism
输尿管	shu	guan	ureter
输得起	shu	qi	can afford to lose; to take defeat with good grace
输水管	shu	guan	pipe; pipeline
输沙量	shu	liang	quantity of sand (transported by a river); sediment content
输油管	shu	guan	petroleum pipeline
输精管	shu	guan	vas deferens
输送媒介	shu	jie	transport medium
输送带	shu	dai	conveyor belt
辗转反侧	zhan	ce	to toss and turn restlessly (in the bed)
辛丑条约	xin	yue	Boxer Protocol of 1901 signed in Beijing, ending the Eight-power Allied Force intervention after the Boxer uprising
辛亥革命	xin	ming	Xinhai Revolution (1911), which ended the Qing Dynasty
辛伐他汀	xin	ting	simvastatin
辛勤耕耘	xin	yun	to devote oneself tirelessly to one's work; to labor diligently over many years
辛巴威	xin	wei	Zimbabwe (Tw)
辛普森	xin	sen	Simpson (name)
辛普森一家	xin	jia	The Simpsons (US TV series)
辛烷值	xin	zhi	octane rating
辛贝特	xin	te	Shin Bet (Israel national security service)
辛辛苦苦	xin	ku	painstakingly; with great trouble
辛辛那提	xin	ti	Cincinnati, Ohio
辛迪加	xin	jia	(loanword) syndicate
辛集市	xin	shi	Xinji, a county-level city in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
辜振甫	gu	fu	Koo Chen-fu (1917-2005), Taiwanese businessman and diplomat
辜鸿铭	gu	ming	Ku Hung-ming or Gu Hongming (1857–1928), Malaysian writer known for his English-language works and defense of Qing dynasty monarchy
辞书学	ci	xue	lexicography
辟室密谈	pi	tan	to discuss behind closed doors
辟雍砚	pi	yan	ink slab or ink stone of celadon or white porcelain with unglazed surface
辣哈布	la	bu	(Catholicism) Rahab, mother of Boaz
辣妹子	la	zi	sassy young woman or pretty girl (esp. one from China's spice belt: Guizhou, Hunan, Jiangxi, Sichuan and Yunnan)
辣子鸡	la	ji	laziji, spicy dish of chicken cubes stir-fried with chili peppers
辣椒仔	la	zai	Tabasco (brand)
辣椒素	la	su	capsaicin
辣椒酱	la	jiang	red pepper paste; chili sauce
辣白菜	la	cai	spicy pickled cabbage; kimchi
辣眼睛	la	jing	(neologism c. 2016) (slang) unpleasant to look at; hard on the eyes
辣豆酱	la	jiang	chili con carne
辣酱油	la	you	Worcestershire sauce
辨别力	bian	li	discrimination; power of discrimination
辨证施治	bian	zhi	diagnosis and treatment based on an overall analysis of the illness and the patient's condition
辨证论治	bian	zhi	holistic diagnosis and treatment (TCM)
辨识度	bian	du	distinctiveness; identifiability; recognizability
辩才天	bian	tian	Saraswati (the Hindu goddess of wisdom and arts and consort of Lord Brahma)
辩护人	bian	ren	defender; defending counsel
辩护士	bian	shi	defender; apologist
辩证唯物主义	bian	yi	dialectical materialism
辩证法	bian	fa	dialectics; dialectic or Socratic method of debate
辰溪县	chen	xian	Chenxi, a county in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
边坝县	bian	xian	Banbar, a county in Chamdo City 昌都市[Chang1 du1 Shi4], Tibet
边境冲突	bian	tu	border clash
边境地区	bian	qu	border area
边界层	bian	ceng	boundary layer
边界线	bian	xian	boundary line; border line
边疆区	bian	qu	krai (Russian administrative territory)
边缘人	bian	ren	marginalized people (not part of mainstream society); marginal man (term coined by social psychologist Kurt Lewin, referring to a person in transition between two cultures or social groups, not fully belonging to either)
边缘化	bian	hua	to marginalize; marginalization
边缘地区	bian	qu	border area
边缘性人格障碍	bian	ai	borderline personality disorder (BPD)
边缘系统	bian	tong	limbic system
边角料	bian	liao	scrap; bits and pieces left over
边角案例	bian	li	(engineering) corner case
边防军	bian	jun	border guard; frontier army
边防站	bian	zhan	border station; frontier post
边防警察	bian	cha	border police
边际成本	bian	ben	marginal cost
边际报酬	bian	chou	marginal returns
辽东半岛	liao	dao	Liaodong Peninsula
辽中区	liao	qu	Liaozhong, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
辽宁古盗鸟	liao	niao	Archaeoraptor liaoningensis (bird-like dinosaur found in Liaoning province)
辽宁号	liao	hao	Liaoning, the first aircraft carrier commissioned into the PLA Navy (commissioned in 2012)
辽宁大学	liao	xue	Liaoning University
辽宁省	liao	sheng	Liaoning Province, capital Shenyang 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4] (short name 遼|辽[Liao2])
辽沈战役	liao	yi	Liaoshen Campaign (Sep-Nov 1948), the first of the three major campaigns by the People's Liberation Army near the end of the Chinese Civil War
辽源市	liao	shi	Liaoyuan, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
辽阳县	liao	xian	Liaoyang, a county in Liaoyang City 遼陽市|辽阳市[Liao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
辽阳市	liao	shi	Liaoyang, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
达不到	da	dao	cannot achieve; cannot reach
达乌里寒鸦	da	ya	(bird species of China) Daurian jackdaw (Coloeus dauuricus)
达克瓦兹	da	zi	(loanword) dacquoise (a French dessert)
达克龙	da	long	Dacron (brand)
达兰萨拉	da	la	Dharamsala in Himachal Pradesh, north India, home of Tibetan government in exile
达味王	da	wang	King David
达喀尔	da	er	Dakar, capital of Senegal
达噜噶齐	da	qi	Mongolian daruqachi, local commander in Mongol and Yuan times
达坂城	da	cheng	see 達坂城區|达坂城区[Da2 ban3 cheng2 Qu1]
达坂城区	da	qu	Dabancheng, a district of Ürümqi City 烏魯木齊市|乌鲁木齐市[Wu1 lu3 mu4 qi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
达姆弹	da	dan	(loanword) dumdum bullet; expanding bullet
达孜区	da	qu	Dagzê, a district of Lhasa City 拉薩市|拉萨市[La1 sa4 Shi4], Tibet
达官显贵	da	gui	see 達官貴人|达官贵人[da2 guan1 gui4 ren2]
达官贵人	da	ren	(idiom) high officials and noble lords; the powerful and influential
达尔富尔	da	er	Darfur, region of western Sudan
达尔文	da	wen	Charles Darwin (1809–1882), British biologist, author of "On the Origin of Species" 物種起源|物种起源[Wu4 zhong3 Qi3 yuan2]; Darwin, capital of the Northern Territory (Australia)
达尔文主义	da	yi	Darwinism
达尔文学说	da	shuo	Darwinism
达尔文港	da	gang	Port Darwin (the port of Darwin, the capital city of the Northern Territory, Australia)
达尔罕茂明安联合旗	da	qi	Darhan Muming'an united banner in Baotou 包頭|包头[Bao1 tou2], Inner Mongolia
达尔马提亚	da	ya	Dalmatia, Croatian region on the eastern coast of Adriatic Sea
达尼亚	da	ya	Dania, Tania etc
达川区	da	qu	Dachuan, a district of Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
达州市	da	shi	Dazhou, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
达德利	da	li	Dudley (name)
达悟族	da	zu	Tao or Yami, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
达成协议	da	yi	to reach agreement
达拉斯	da	si	Dallas
达拉特	da	te	Dalad banner in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
达拉特旗	da	qi	Dalad banner in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
达文西	da	xi	Leonardo da Vinci (1452-1519), Italian Renaissance painter (Tw)
达斡尔	da	er	Daur ethnic group
达斡尔族	da	zu	Daur ethnic group
达斡尔语	da	yu	Daur language (of Daur ethnic group of Inner Mongolia and Heilongjiang)
达日县	da	xian	Darlag, a county in Golog Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 果洛藏族自治州[Guo3 luo4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
达朗贝尔	da	er	D'Alembert (1717-1783), French mathematician
达沃斯	da	si	Davos (Swiss ski resort); Davos world economic forum (WEF)
达沃斯论坛	da	tan	Davos world economic forum (WEF)
达特茅斯	da	si	Dartmouth (place name)
达特茅斯学院	da	yuan	Dartmouth College
达累斯萨拉姆	da	mu	Dar es Salaam (former capital of Tanzania)
达罗毗荼	da	tu	Dravidian (general term for South Indian people and languages)
达美航空	da	kong	Delta Air Lines, Inc., airline headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia
达芬西	da	xi	see 達·芬奇|达·芬奇[Da2 · Fen1 qi2]
达茂旗	da	qi	Darhan Muming'an united banner in Baotou 包頭|包头[Bao1 tou2], Inner Mongolia; abbr. for 達爾罕茂明安聯合旗|达尔罕茂明安联合旗[Da2 er3 han3 Mao4 ming2 an1 lian2 he2 qi2]
达赖喇嘛	da	ma	Dalai Lama
达达尼尔海峡	da	xia	Dardanelles Strait; Turkish: Çanakkale Boğazı
达鲁花赤	da	chi	Mongolian daruqachi, local commander in Mongol and Yuan times
迁安市	qian	shi	Qian'an, a county-level city in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
迁居移民	qian	min	immigration
迁怒于人	qian	ren	to vent one's anger on an innocent party (idiom)
迁西县	qian	xian	Qianxi, a county in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
迂回奔袭	yu	xi	to attack from an unexpected direction
迂回曲折	yu	zhe	meandering and circuitous (idiom); complicated developments that never get anywhere; going around in circles
迂夫子	yu	zi	pedant; old fogey
迄今为止	qi	zhi	so far; up to now; still (not)
过一会儿	guo	r	later; after a while
过不去	guo	qu	to make life difficult for; to embarrass; unable to make it through
过了这村没这店	guo	dian	past this village, you won't find this shop (idiom); this is your last chance
过五关斩六将	guo	jiang	lit. to cross five passes and slay six generals (idiom); fig. to surmount all difficulties (on the way to success)
过关斩将	guo	jiang	to surmount all difficulties (on the way to success) (idiom) (abbr. for 過五關斬六將|过五关斩六将[guo4 wu3 guan1 zhan3 liu4 jiang4])
过劳死	guo	si	karoshi (loanword from Japanese), death from overwork
过劳肥	guo	fei	overweight from overwork (the supposition that white collar workers become fat as a consequence of factors associated with being under pressure at work, including irregular diet, lack of exercise and inadequate rest)
过去分词	guo	ci	past participle (in European grammar)
过去式	guo	shi	past tense
过去时	guo	shi	past tense (grammar)
过境签证	guo	zheng	transit visa
过失杀人	guo	ren	see 過失致死罪|过失致死罪[guo4 shi1 zhi4 si3 zui4]
过失致死罪	guo	zui	(law) negligent homicide
过头话	guo	hua	exaggeration
过家家	guo	jia	to play house
过山车	guo	che	roller coaster
过干瘾	guo	yin	to satisfy a craving with substitutes
过度关怀	guo	huai	obsession; excessive concern
过度医疗	guo	liao	overtreatment; excessive or unnecessary medical treatment
过度紧张	guo	zhang	hypertension; excessive stress
过庭录	guo	lu	lit. Notes on Passing the Hall, historical jottings by 12th century Southern Song poet Fan Gongcheng 范公偁[Fan4 Gong1 cheng1], containing moral instructions derived from great men of Song dynasty
过得去	guo	qu	lit. can pass through (an opening); fig. can get by (in life); tolerably well
过意不去	guo	qu	to feel very apologetic
过敏原	guo	yuan	allergen; anaphylactogen
过敏反应	guo	ying	allergic reaction
过敏性	guo	xing	hypersensitive; allergic reaction; anaphylaxis
过敏性休克	guo	ke	anaphylactic shock
过敏性反应	guo	ying	allergic reaction; hypersensitive reaction; anaphylaxis
过日子	guo	zi	to live one's life; to pass one's days; to get along
过时不候	guo	hou	being late is not acceptable (idiom)
过来人	guo	ren	an experienced person; sb who has "been around (the block)"; sb who has personally experienced it
过桥米线	guo	xian	rice noodle soup from Yunnan province
过桥贷款	guo	kuan	bridge loan
过氧化	guo	hua	peroxide
过氧化氢	guo	qing	hydrogen peroxide H2O2
过氧化氢酶	guo	mei	catalase (enzyme); hydrogen peroxidase
过氧化物	guo	wu	peroxide
过氧化苯甲酰	guo	xian	benzoil peroxide
过氧物酶体	guo	ti	peroxisome (type of organelle)
过氧苯甲酰	guo	xian	benzoil peroxide
过水面	guo	mian	cooked noodles cooled with cold water
过江之鲫	guo	ji	(idiom) vast multitude of people
过河拆桥	guo	qiao	(lit.) to destroy the bridge after crossing the river (idiom); (fig.) to abandon one's benefactor upon achieving one's goal
过渡性	guo	xing	transitional; bridging
过渡性贷款	guo	kuan	bridging loan
过渡时期	guo	qi	transition period
过渡贷款	guo	kuan	bridging loan
过渡金属	guo	shu	transition metal (chemistry)
过滤嘴	guo	zui	cigarette filter; filter tip
过滤器	guo	qi	filtering apparatus; (machine) filter
过犹不及	guo	ji	too far is as bad as not enough (idiom, from the Analects)
过生日	guo	ri	to celebrate a birthday
过目不忘	guo	wang	to have a highly retentive memory; to have sth imprinted in one's memory
过眼云烟	guo	yan	ephemeral (idiom)
过眼烟云	guo	yun	ephemeral (idiom)
过站大厅	guo	ting	transit lounge
过紧日子	guo	zi	to tighten one's belt; to live frugally
过而能改善莫大焉	guo	yan	If one can change after making a mistake, there is nothing better (idiom)
过肩摔	guo	shuai	(judo) shoulder throw
过节儿	guo	r	(coll.) grudge; strife; (coll.) good manners
过街天桥	guo	qiao	skywalk; pedestrian bridge
过街老鼠	guo	shu	sb or sth detested by all; target of scorn; anathema
过路人	guo	ren	a passer-by
过路费	guo	fei	toll (fee for using a road)
过马路	guo	lu	to cross the street
迈克尔	mai	er	(name) Michael
迈凯伊	mai	yi	McKay or Mackay (name)
迈凯轮	mai	lun	McLaren; MacLaren
迈巴赫	mai	he	Maybach, German car brand
迈赫迪	mai	di	Mahdi or Mehdi (Arabic: Guided one), redeemer of some Islamic prophesy
迈赫迪军	mai	jun	Mahdi army, Iraqi Shia armed militia led by Moqtada Sadr
迈阿密	mai	mi	Miami (Florida)
迎佛骨	ying	gu	to ceremonially receive a bone relic of the Buddha
迎刃而解	ying	jie	lit. (bamboo) splits when it meets the knife's edge (idiom); fig. easily solved
迎头儿	ying	r	erhua variant of 迎頭|迎头[ying2 tou2]
迎头打击	ying	ji	to hit head on
迎头痛击	ying	ji	to deliver a frontal assault; to meet head-on (idiom)
迎头赶上	ying	shang	to try hard to catch up
迎客松	ying	song	Greeting Pine, symbol of Huangshan 黃山|黄山[Huang2 shan1]
迎接挑战	ying	zhan	to meet a challenge
迎春花	ying	hua	winter jasmine (Jasminum nudiflorum)
迎来送往	ying	wang	lit. to meet those arriving, to send of those departing (idiom); busy entertaining guests; all time taken over with social niceties
迎江区	ying	qu	Yingjiang, a district of Anqing City 安慶市|安庆市[An1 qing4 Shi4], Anhui
迎泽区	ying	qu	Yingze, a district of Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
迎神赛会	ying	hui	folk festival, esp. involving shrine or image of God
迎难而上	ying	shang	(idiom) to press on in the face of challenges
迎面而来	ying	lai	directly; head-on (collision); in one's face (of wind)
迎风招展	ying	zhan	to flutter in the wind (idiom)
迎风飘舞	ying	wu	to flutter in the wind
运出运费	yun	fei	outward freight (accountancy)
运动会	yun	hui	sports competition; CL:個|个[ge4]
运动健将	yun	jiang	champion-level athlete (title awarded by the General Administration of Sport of China based on performance in international and national competitions)
运动员	yun	yuan	athlete; CL:名[ming2],個|个[ge4]
运动场	yun	chang	sports field; playground; exercise yard
运动学	yun	xue	kinematics
运动定律	yun	lv	laws of motion (mechanics)
运动家	yun	jia	athlete; sportsman; activist
运动战	yun	zhan	mobile warfare
运动方程	yun	cheng	equations of motion
运动服	yun	fu	sportswear
运动病	yun	bing	car sickness; motion sickness
运动相机	yun	ji	action camera
运动衫	yun	shan	sports shirt; sweatshirt; CL:件[jian4]
运动鞋	yun	xie	sports shoes; sneakers
运城市	yun	shi	Yuncheng, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
运河区	yun	qu	Yunhe, a district of Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
运用自如	yun	ru	to have a fluent command of (idiom)
运筹学	yun	xue	operations research (OR)
运筹帷幄	yun	wo	lit. to devise battle plan in a tent (idiom); fig. planning strategies
运算式	yun	shi	(math.) expression (arithmetic, Boolean etc)
运算数	yun	shu	operand (math.)
运算环境	yun	jing	operating environment
运算符	yun	fu	(math.) operator
运营商	yun	shang	operator (of a power station, transport network etc); carrier (telecommunications etc)
运营总监	yun	jian	chief operating officer (COO)
运行方式	yun	shi	operating method; running mode
运行时	yun	shi	(computing) runtime
运行时错误	yun	wu	run-time error (in computing)
运货员	yun	yuan	porter
运货马车	yun	che	cargo wagon
运载火箭	yun	jian	carrier rocket
运载量	yun	liang	carrying capacity; maximum load; load actually carried
运输业	yun	ye	transportation industry
运输网	yun	wang	transport network
运输舰	yun	jian	transport ship
运输船	yun	chuan	transport ship
运输量	yun	liang	volume of freight
运钞车	yun	che	armored car (for transporting valuables)
近义词	jin	ci	near-synonym
近乎同步	jin	bu	plesiochronous
近亲交配	jin	pei	inbreeding
近亲繁殖	jin	zhi	inbreeding
近代史	jin	shi	modern history (in Chinese historiography, from the Opium Wars to the fall of the Qing dynasty)
近似解	jin	jie	approximate solution
近体诗	jin	shi	a genre of poetry, developed in the Tang Dynasty, characterized by its strict form
近光灯	jin	deng	low beam (headlights)
近几年	jin	nian	in recent years
近卫文麿	jin	mo	Prince KONOE Fumimaro (1891-), Japanese nobleman and militarist politician, prime minister 1937-1939 and 1940-1941
近在咫尺	jin	chi	(idiom) very close; almost within reach; close at hand
近在眼前	jin	qian	right under one's nose; right in front of one's eyes; close at hand; imminent
近地天体	jin	ti	near-Earth object (NEO)
近地点	jin	dian	apsis; perigee
近地轨道	jin	dao	low Earth orbit (LEO)
近场通信	jin	xin	(computing) near-field communication (NFC)
近场通讯	jin	xun	(Tw) (computing) near-field communication (NFC)
近年来	jin	lai	for the past few years
近打河	jin	he	Kinta River in Perak, Malaysia
近拱点	jin	dian	(astronomy) periapsis
近日点	jin	dian	perihelion, the nearest point of a planet in elliptic orbit to the sun; lower apsis
近景魔术	jin	shu	close-up magic; micromagic
近朱者赤近墨者黑	jin	hei	those who handle cinnabar are stained red; those who work with ink are stained black (idiom); you are the product of your environment
近朱近墨	jin	mo	one is judged by the company one keeps (idiom)
近水楼台	jin	tai	lit. a pavilion near the water (idiom); fig. using one's proximity to the powerful to obtain favor
近水楼台先得月	jin	yue	the pavilion closest to the water enjoys moonlight first (idiom); to benefit from intimacy with an influential person
近现代史	jin	shi	modern history and contemporary history
近畿地方	jin	fang	the Kinki region of Japan, aka the Kansai region, with cities including Kyoto, Osaka and Kobe
近端胞浆	jin	jiang	proximal cytoplasm
近视眼	jin	yan	nearsightedness; myopia
近距离	jin	li	close range
近距离无线通讯	jin	xun	(computing) near-field communication (NFC)
近郊区	jin	qu	suburbs; city outskirts
返券黄牛	fan	niu	"shopping coupon scalper", sb who sells unwanted or returned shopping coupons to others for a profit
返璞归真	fan	zhen	to return to one's true self; to regain the natural state
返祖现象	fan	xiang	(biology) atavism
返老还童	fan	tong	to recover one's youthful vigor; to feel rejuvenated (idiom)
返销粮	fan	liang	grain bought by the state and resold to areas undergoing a grain shortage
还不如	hai	ru	to be better off ...; might as well ...
还乡女	huan	nv	(Korean term) women who returned to Korea after being abducted during the Manchu invasions of Korea in the 17th century, only to be regarded as defiled and therefore ostracized, even by their own families
还原乳	huan	ru	reconstituted milk (Tw)
还原剂	huan	ji	reducing agent
还原号	huan	hao	(music notation) natural sign, ♮
还原真相	huan	xiang	to set the record straight; to clarify the facts
还给老师	huan	shi	to forget (everything one has learned)
还魂纸	huan	zhi	recycled paper
这一阵子	zhe	zi	recently; currently
这下子	zhe	zi	this time
这么样	zhe	yang	thus; in this way
这么点	zhe	dian	such a small amount of (money, time etc)
这么着	zhe	zhe	thus; in this way; like this
这些个	zhe	ge	these
这会儿	zhe	r	(coll.) now; this moment; also pr. [zhe4 hui3 r5]
这几天	zhe	tian	the past few days
这嘎达	zhei	da	(northeast dialect) here; this place
这就是说	zhe	shuo	in other words; that is to say
这山望着那山高	zhe	gao	lit. the next mountain looks taller (idiom); fig. not satisfied with one's current position; the grass is always greener on the other side of the fence
这年头	zhe	tou	(coll.) nowadays
这早晚儿	zhe	r	now; at this time; this late
这样一来	zhe	lai	thus; if this happens then
这样子	zhe	zi	so; such; this way
这疙瘩	zhei	da	variant of 這嘎達|这嘎达[zhei4 ga1 da5]
这边儿	zhe	r	erhua variant of 這邊|这边[zhe4 bian1]
这还了得	zhe	de	How dare you!; This is an outrage!; Absolutely disgraceful!
这阵儿	zhe	r	now; at present; at this juncture
这阵子	zhe	zi	now; at present; at this juncture
进一步	jin	bu	to go a step further; (develop, understand, improve etc) more; further
进位法	jin	fa	system of writing numbers to a base, such as decimal or binary (math)
进出口	jin	kou	importation and exportation; import-export; access point; opening that serves as an entrance or exit
进出境	jin	jing	entering and leaving a country
进化论	jin	lun	theory of evolution; (esp.) Darwinism
进取心	jin	xin	enterprising spirit; initiative
进口商	jin	shang	importer; import business
进度条	jin	tiao	(computing) progress bar
进度表	jin	biao	progress chart; schedule
进步主义	jin	yi	progressivism
进步号	jin	hao	Progress (name of Russian spaceship)
进水口	jin	kou	water inlet
进水闸	jin	zha	water intake; inlet sluice
进行性	jin	xing	progressive; gradual
进行性失语	jin	yu	progressive aphasia; gradual loss of speech
进行曲	jin	qu	march (musical)
进贤县	jin	xian	Jinxian, a county in Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
进身之阶	jin	jie	stepping-stone to greater power or higher rank
进退不得	jin	de	can't advance or retreat (idiom); no room for maneuver; stalled; in a dilemma
进退两难	jin	nan	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); without any way out of a dilemma; trapped; in an impossible situation
进退中绳	jin	sheng	to advance or retreat, each has its rules (idiom from Zhuangzi); many translations are possible
进退为难	jin	nan	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); without any way out of a dilemma; trapped; in an impossible situation
进退失据	jin	ju	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); at a loss; in a hopeless situation
进退无路	jin	lu	to have no alternative (idiom)
进退有常	jin	chang	to advance or retreat, each has its rules (idiom from Zhuangzi); many translations are possible
进退维谷	jin	gu	no room to advance or to retreat (idiom); without any way out of a dilemma; trapped; in an impossible situation
进退自如	jin	ru	free to come and go (idiom); to have room to maneuver
进道若蜷	jin	quan	progress seems like regress (alternative wording for 進道若退|进道若退[jin4 dao4 ruo4 tui4])
进道若退	jin	tui	progress seems like regress (the Book of Dao 道德經|道德经[Dao4 de2 jing1], Chpt. 41)
远东山雀	yuan	que	(bird species of China) Japanese tit (Parus minor)
远东树莺	yuan	ying	(bird species of China) Manchurian bush warbler (Horornis canturians)
远东苇莺	yuan	ying	(bird species of China) Manchurian reed warbler (Acrocephalus tangorum)
远东豹	yuan	bao	Amur leopard (Panthera pardus orientalis)
远亲不如近邻	yuan	lin	A relative afar is less use than a close neighbor (idiom). Take whatever help is on hand, even from strangers.
远光灯	yuan	deng	high beam (headlights)
远地点	yuan	dian	apogee
远大理想	yuan	xiang	lofty ideal
远安县	yuan	xian	Yuan'an, a county in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
远征军	yuan	jun	expeditionary force; army on a distant expedition
远拱点	yuan	dian	(astronomy) apoapsis
远方来鸿	yuan	hong	letter from afar (literary)
远日点	yuan	dian	aphelion, the furthest point of a planet in elliptic orbit to the sun; opposite: perihelion 近日點|近日点[jin4 ri4 dian3]; higher apsis
远期合约	yuan	yue	forward contract (finance)
远未解决	yuan	jue	far from solved
远来的和尚会念经	yuan	jing	the monk coming from afar is good at reading scriptures (idiom); foreign talent is valued higher than local talent
远水不救近火	yuan	huo	see 遠水救不了近火|远水救不了近火[yuan3 shui3 jiu4 bu5 liao3 jin4 huo3]
远水不解近渴	yuan	ke	lit. distant water does not cure present thirst; fig. urgent need; a slow remedy does not address immediate needs
远水救不了近火	yuan	huo	water in a distant place is of little use in putting out a fire right here; (fig.) a slow remedy does not address the current emergency
远渡重洋	yuan	yang	to travel across the oceans
远程导弹	yuan	dan	long distance missile
远程登录	yuan	lu	to log in remotely
远程监控	yuan	kong	RMON; remote monitoring
远端工作	yuan	zuo	to telecommute; to work remotely
远端胞浆	yuan	jiang	distal cytoplasm
远端转移	yuan	yi	metastasis
远见卓识	yuan	shi	visionary and sagacious (idiom)
远走高飞	yuan	fei	(idiom) to go far away; to flee to a distant place
远超过	yuan	guo	to exceed by far; to outclass
远距离	yuan	li	long-distance
远距离监视	yuan	shi	off-site monitoring
远近皆知	yuan	zhi	known far and wide (idiom)
远近闻名	yuan	ming	to be known far and wide; to be well-known
远远超过	yuan	guo	surpassing by far
远道而来	yuan	lai	to come from far away
远门近枝	yuan	zhi	near and distant relatives
远隔千里	yuan	li	thousands of miles away; far away
远非如此	yuan	ci	far from it being so (idiom)
违信背约	wei	yue	in violation of contract and good faith
违利赴名	wei	ming	to renounce profit and seek fame (idiom); to abandon greed for reputation; to choose fame over fortune
违反宪法	wei	fa	to violate the constitution
违天害理	wei	li	lit. violating heaven and reason (idiom); immoral character
违天逆理	wei	li	lit. violating heaven and reason (idiom); immoral character
违心之言	wei	yan	false assertion; speech against one's own convictions
违恩负义	wei	yi	to disobey one's benefactor; to violate debts of gratitude; to repay good with evil
违时绝俗	wei	su	to defy the times and reject custom (idiom); in breach of current conventions
违法乱纪	wei	ji	(lit.) to break the law and violate the rules (idiom); (fig.) misconduct
违禁品	wei	pin	prohibited goods; contraband
违禁药品	wei	pin	illegal medicines
违章者	wei	zhe	violator; offender
违约金	wei	jin	penalty (fee)
连三并四	lian	si	one after the other; in succession (idiom)
连中三元	lian	yuan	(old) to rank first in the imperial examinations at the provincial capital, the national capital and the palace successively; (sports etc) to achieve three successes in a row (three matches in a row, three goals in a match etc)
连云区	lian	qu	Lianyun, a district of Lianyungang City 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4], Jiangsu
连云港	lian	gang	see 連雲港市|连云港市[Lian2 yun2 gang3 Shi4]
连云港市	lian	shi	Lianyungang, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
连体双胞胎	lian	tai	conjoined twins; Siamese twins
连体婴	lian	ying	conjoined twins
连体婴儿	lian	er	conjoined twins; Siamese twins
连体泳衣	lian	yi	one-piece swimsuit
连体裤	lian	ku	jumpsuit
连分数	lian	shu	(math.) continued fraction
连动债	lian	zhai	structured note (finance)
连南县	lian	xian	see 連南瑤族自治縣|连南瑶族自治县[Lian2 nan2 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
连南瑶族自治县	lian	xian	Liannan Yao Autonomous County, in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
连哄带骗	lian	pian	to cajole; to sweet talk sb into doing sth
连坐制	lian	zhi	guilt by association
连城县	lian	xian	Liancheng, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
连奔带跑	lian	pao	to run quickly; to rush; to gallop
连字号	lian	hao	hyphen (punct.)
连字符	lian	fu	hyphen
连字符号	lian	hao	hyphen
连山区	lian	qu	Lianshan, a district of Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
连山县	lian	xian	see 連山壯族瑤族自治縣|连山壮族瑶族自治县[Lian2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
连山壮族瑶族自治县	lian	xian	Lianshan Zhuang and Yao Autonomous County, in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
连州市	lian	shi	Lianzhou, a county-level city in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
连带责任	lian	ren	to bear joint responsibility for sth; joint liability (law)
连帽卫衣	lian	yi	hooded sweatshirt; hoodie
连平县	lian	xian	Lianping, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
连战连胜	lian	sheng	fighting and winning a series of battles (idiom); ever victorious
连拖带拉	lian	la	pushing and pulling (idiom)
连指手套	lian	tao	mittens
连接号	lian	hao	hyphen
连接器	lian	qi	connector
连接框	lian	kuang	connection frame; linked frame
连接至	lian	zhi	to connect to
连接词	lian	ci	conjunction
连接酶	lian	mei	ligase
连本带利	lian	li	both principal and interest; capital plus profit
连枷胸	lian	xiong	(medicine) flail chest
连根拔	lian	ba	to pull up by the roots; to uproot
连江县	lian	xian	Lianjiang, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian; Lienchiang County, the official name of the Matsu Islands 馬祖列島|马祖列岛[Ma3 zu3 Lie4 dao3], a county of the ROC (based in Taiwan)
连滚带爬	lian	pa	(idiom) stumbling and crawling; scrambling; frantically trying to escape
连环图	lian	tu	comic strip
连环套	lian	tao	set of interlocking rings; (fig.) series of interlinked events; (fig.) elaborate trap or scheme
连环杀手	lian	shou	serial killer
连环画	lian	hua	lianhuanhua (graphic novel)
连环计	lian	ji	coordinated sequence of strategic moves
连珠炮	lian	pao	barrage of gunfire (often used as a metaphor for rapid speech)
连篇累牍	lian	du	(of a piece of writing) long and tedious (idiom); verbose
连系词	lian	ci	copula (linguistics)
连结主义	lian	yi	connectionism
连结线	lian	xian	tie (music)
连续不断	lian	duan	continuous; unceasing
连续介质力学	lian	xue	mechanics of a continuous medium; fluid mechanics
连续体	lian	ti	continuum
连续函数	lian	shu	continuous function
连续剧	lian	ju	TV series
连续变调	lian	diao	tone sandhi
连续性	lian	xing	continuity
连续犯	lian	fan	successive offenses; serial crime
连续监视	lian	shi	continuous monitoring
连续统假设	lian	she	(math.) the continuum hypothesis
连绵不绝	lian	jue	(idiom) continuous; unending
连绵词	lian	ci	variant of 聯綿詞|联绵词[lian2 mian2 ci2]
连缀动词	lian	ci	linking verb
连衣裙	lian	qun	a one-piece dress
连裤袜	lian	wa	pantyhose; tights; CL:雙|双[shuang1]
连踢带打	lian	da	to kick and beat
连轴转	lian	zhuan	(coll.) to work non-stop; to work around the clock
连连看	lian	kan	pattern matching (puzzle game); matching (type of test question in which presented items are to be paired up)
连通器	lian	qi	communicating vessels (in scientific experiment)
连销店	lian	dian	chain store
连锁反应	lian	ying	(physics) chain reaction; (idiom) chain reaction; series of events each caused by the previous one
连锁商店	lian	dian	chain store
连锁店	lian	dian	chain store
连锅端	lian	duan	to take even the cooking pots (idiom); to clean out; to wipe out
连镳并轸	lian	zhen	lit. reins together and carriages level (idiom); keeping exactly abreast of one another; running neck and neck
连阴雨	lian	yu	prolonged spell of rainy weather
连音符	lian	fu	(music) tuplet
连骨肉	lian	rou	chop; rib meat
迟发性损伤	chi	shang	delayed lesion
迟浩田	chi	tian	Chi Haotian (1929-), Chinese Minister of National Defense 1993-2003
迟滞现象	chi	xiang	hysteresis
迥然不同	jiong	tong	widely different; utterly different
迦叶佛	jia	fo	Buddha Kassapa (Pāli) or Kāśyapa (Skt) (one of the Buddhas of the past)
迦太基	jia	ji	Carthage
迪吉里杜管	di	guan	(loanword) didgeridoo
迪士尼	di	ni	Disney, American entertainment conglomerate; Walt Disney (1901–1966), American animator and film producer
迪士尼乐园	di	yuan	Disneyland
迪庆州	di	zhou	see 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
迪庆藏族自治州	di	zhou	Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Yunnan Province 雲南省|云南省[Yun2 nan2 Sheng3]
迪斯可	di	ke	disco (loanword) (Tw)
迪斯尼	di	ni	see 迪士尼[Di2 shi4 ni2]
迪斯尼乐园	di	yuan	Disneyland; also written 迪士尼樂園|迪士尼乐园[Di2 shi4 ni2 Le4 yuan2]
迪斯科	di	ke	(loanword) disco
迪斯科厅	di	ting	disco hall; nightclub
迪斯科吧	di	ba	discotheque
迪斯雷利	di	li	Benjamin Disraeli (1804-1881), British conservative politician and novelist, prime minister 1868-1880
迫不及待	po	dai	(idiom) unable to hold oneself back; eager to do sth without delay
迫不得已	po	yi	to have no alternative (idiom); compelled by circumstances; forced into sth
迫击炮	pai	pao	mortar (weapon); Taiwan pr. [po4 ji2 pao4]
迫切性	po	xing	urgency
迫在眉睫	po	jie	pressing in on one's eyelashes (idiom); imminent
迭部县	die	xian	Têwo, a county in Gannan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘南藏族自治州[Gan1 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Gansu
迷不知返	mi	fan	to go astray and to not know how to get back on the right path (idiom)
迷你剧	mi	ju	miniseries
迷你裙	mi	qun	miniskirt
迷幻剂	mi	ji	a psychedelic; hallucinogen
迷幻药	mi	yao	hallucinogen; psychedelic drug
迷幻蘑菇	mi	gu	psilocybin mushroom; magic mushroom
迷彩服	mi	fu	camouflage clothing
迷惑不解	mi	jie	to feel puzzled
迷惑龙	mi	long	apatosaurus; former name: brontosaurus; also called 雷龍|雷龙[lei2 long2]
迷离惝恍	mi	huang	(idiom) blurred; confusing
迷离马虎	mi	hu	muddle-headed
迷走神经	mi	jing	vagus nerve
迷踪罗汉拳	mi	quan	Mizongyi, Mizong, My Jhong Law Horn - "Lost Track Fist" (Chinese Martial Art)
迷迭香	mi	xiang	rosemary (Rosmarinus officinalis)
迷迷糊糊	mi	hu	in a daze; bewildered
迷途知返	mi	fan	to get back on the right path; to mend one's ways
迷魂汤	mi	tang	potion given to souls before they are reincarnated, which makes them forget their previous life (aka 孟婆湯|孟婆汤[meng4 po2 tang1]); magic potion; (fig.) bewitching words or actions
迷魂药	mi	yao	magic potion; (fig.) bewitching words or actions; knockout drug; ecstasy; MDMA
迷魂阵	mi	zhen	stratagem to trap sb; to bewitch and trap
迷魂香	mi	xiang	a kind of sleeping gas or smoke used by thieves to incapacitate victims
追亡逐北	zhui	bei	to pursue and attack a fleeing enemy
追光灯	zhui	deng	(theater) spotlight; followspot
追加剂	zhui	ji	(Tw) (vaccine) booster dose; booster shot
追名逐利	zhui	li	(idiom) to seek fame and wealth
追奔逐北	zhui	bei	see 追亡逐北[zhui1 wang2 zhu2 bei3]
追寻现代中国	zhui	guo	"The Search for Modern China" (1990) by Jonathan D. Spence 史景遷|史景迁[Shi3 Jing3 qian1]
追思会	zhui	hui	memorial service; memorial meeting
追悔莫及	zhui	ji	too late for regrets (idiom); It is useless to repent after the event.
追悼会	zhui	hui	memorial service; funeral service
追悼文	zhui	wen	eulogy
追星族	zhui	zu	passionate fan (of a celebrity); stan
追本溯源	zhui	yuan	to trace sth back to its origin
追本穷源	zhui	yuan	see 追本溯源[zhui1 ben3 su4 yuan2]
追根寻底	zhui	di	see 追根究底[zhui1 gen1 jiu1 di3]
追根求源	zhui	yuan	to track sth to its roots
追根溯源	zhui	yuan	to pursue sth back to its origins; to trace back to the source; to get to the bottom of sth
追根究底	zhui	di	to get to the heart of the matter
追根究底儿	zhui	r	erhua variant of 追根究底[zhui1 gen1 jiu1 di3]
追根问底	zhui	di	lit. to examine roots and inquire at the base (idiom); to get to the bottom of sth
追诉时效	zhui	xiao	(law) period during which one can prosecute or sue sb (as stipulated by a statute of limitations)
追踪号码	zhui	ma	tracking number (of a package shipment)
追踪报导	zhui	dao	follow-up report
追踪调查	zhui	cha	follow-up study; investigative follow-up
追逐赛	zhui	sai	pursuit race; chase
追随者	zhui	zhe	follower; adherent; following
追风逐电	zhui	dian	proceeding at a tremendous pace; getting on like a house on fire
退伍军人	tui	ren	veteran
退伍军人节	tui	jie	Veterans' Day
退休金	tui	jin	retirement pension; pension payments received after retirement
退休金双轨制	tui	zhi	see 養老金雙軌制|养老金双轨制[yang3 lao3 jin1 shuang1 gui3 zhi4]
退出运行	tui	xing	to decommission
退居二线	tui	xian	to withdraw to the second line of duty; to resign from a leading post (and assume an advisory post)
退思园	tui	yuan	Retreat and Reflection Garden in Tongli, Jiangsu, one of the Classical Gardens of Suzhou, a UNESCO World Heritage Site
退换货	tui	huo	to return a product for another item
退格键	tui	jian	backspace (keyboard)
退烧药	tui	yao	antipyretic (drug to reduce fever, such as sulfanilamide)
退而求其次	tui	ci	to settle for second best; the next best thing
退耕还林	tui	lin	restoring agricultural land to forest
退行性	tui	xing	degenerative; retrograde
退避三舍	tui	she	(lit.) to retreat ninety li (idiom); (fig.) to shun; to assiduously avoid
送往迎来	song	lai	see 迎來送往|迎来送往[ying2 lai2 song4 wang3]
送旧迎新	song	xin	usher out the old, greet the new; esp. to see in the New Year
送礼会	song	hui	shower (for bride, baby etc)
送秋波	song	bo	to cast flirtatious glances at sb (idiom)
送货到家	song	jia	home delivery
适可而止	shi	zhi	(idiom) to refrain from going too far; to know when to stop
适婚期	shi	qi	age range suitable for getting married
适存度	shi	du	fitness (evolution); ability to survive and reproduce
适应性	shi	xing	adaptability; flexibility
适得其反	shi	fan	to produce the opposite of the desired result
适得其所	shi	suo	exactly what one would wish; to find one's niche
适老化	shi	hua	to make (products, living spaces etc) suitable for the elderly; (attributive) senior-friendly; elder-accessible
适者生存	shi	cun	survival of the fittest
适逢其会	shi	hui	(idiom) to happen to be in the right place at the right time
适配器	shi	qi	adapter (device)
适配层	shi	ceng	(computing) adaptation layer
逃不出	tao	chu	unable to escape; can't get out
逃之夭夭	tao	yao	to escape without trace (idiom); to make one's getaway (from the scene of a crime); to show a clean pair of heels
逃亡者	tao	zhe	runaway
逃北者	tao	zhe	North Korean refugee
逃灾避难	tao	nan	to seek refuge from calamities
逃税天堂	tao	tang	tax haven
逃窜无踪	tao	zong	to disperse and flee, leaving no trace
逃过一劫	tao	jie	(idiom) to survive a calamity; to get through a crisis
逃逸速度	tao	du	escape velocity
逃避责任	tao	ren	to evade responsibility; to shirk
逆反应	ni	ying	reverse reaction; counterreaction; inverse response
逆反心理	ni	li	reverse psychology
逆变器	ni	qi	(electronics) inverter
逆向工程	ni	cheng	reverse engineering
逆回音	ni	yin	inverted turn (ornament in music)
逆定理	ni	li	converse theorem (math.)
逆戟鲸	ni	jing	orca; killer whale (Orcinus orca)
逆断层	ni	ceng	reverse fault (geology); compression fault, where one block pushes over the other at dip of less than 45 degrees
逆时针	ni	zhen	anticlockwise; counterclockwise
逆映射	ni	she	inverse map (math.)
逆来顺受	ni	shou	to resign oneself to adversity (idiom); to grin and bear it; to submit meekly to insults, maltreatment, humiliation etc
逆水行舟	ni	zhou	lit. navigating a boat against the current (idiom); fig. in a tough environment (one needs to work hard)
逆水行舟不进则退	ni	tui	like rowing a boat upstream, if you stop moving forward you fall back (idiom)
逆流溯源	ni	yuan	to go back to the source
逆流而上	ni	shang	to sail against the current; (fig.) to go against the flow
逆渗透	ni	tou	reverse osmosis
逆生长	ni	zhang	to seem to grow younger; to regain one's youthful looks
逆耳之言	ni	yan	speech that grates on the ear (idiom); bitter truths; home truths (that one does not want to hear)
逆行倒施	ni	shi	to go against the tide (idiom); to do things all wrong; to try to turn back history; a perverse way of doing things
逆转录病毒	ni	du	reverse transcription virus; retrovirus
逆转录酶	ni	mei	reverse transcriptase
逆运算	ni	suan	inverse operation; inverse calculation
选举人	xuan	ren	voter; elector
选举人团	xuan	tuan	Electoral College (of the United States)
选举团	xuan	tuan	Electoral College (of the United States)
选举委员会	xuan	hui	Election Committee (Hong Kong)
选举权	xuan	quan	suffrage
选举法庭	xuan	ting	election court
选修课	xuan	ke	optional course (in school)
选单列	xuan	lie	(Tw) (computing) menu bar
选择性	xuan	xing	selective; selectiveness; selectivity
选择题	xuan	ti	multiple-choice question
选民登记	xuan	ji	voter registration
选秀节目	xuan	mu	talent show; talent competition
选美比赛	xuan	sai	beauty contest
选美皇后	xuan	hou	beauty queen
选边站	xuan	zhan	to choose a side (in a conflict, debate or rivalry); to take sides
逊克县	xun	xian	Xunke, a county in Heihe City 黑河市[Hei1 he2 Shi4], Heilongjiang
逊尼派	xun	pai	Sunni sect (of Islam)
逋逃薮	bu	sou	(literary) refuge and hiding place for fugitives
逍遥法外	xiao	wai	unfettered and beyond the law (idiom); evading retribution; getting away with it (e.g. crimes); still at large
逍遥自在	xiao	zai	free and at leisure (idiom); unfettered; outside the reach of the law (of criminal); at large
逍遥自得	xiao	de	doing as one pleases (idiom); foot-loose and fancy free
透天厝	tou	cuo	(Tw) row house; townhouse; terrace house
透平机	tou	ji	turbine
透明度	tou	du	transparency; (policy of) openness
透明硬纱	tou	sha	organza (fabric)
透明程度	tou	du	transparency
透明胶	tou	jiao	Scotch tape
透明质酸	tou	suan	hyaluronic acid; hyaluronan
透析机	tou	ji	dialysis machine
透水性	tou	xing	permeability
透视图	tou	tu	perspective drawing
透视学	tou	xue	perspective (in drawing)
透视法	tou	fa	perspective (in drawing)
透视画	tou	hua	perspective drawing
透视画法	tou	fa	perspective drawing
透视装	tou	zhuang	see-through clothing
透通性	tou	xing	transparency (networking)
逐字逐句	zhu	ju	literal; word for word; word by word and phrase by phrase
逐客令	zhu	ling	the First Emperor's order to expel foreigners; (fig.) notice to leave; words or behavior intended at turning visitors out
逐行扫描	zhu	miao	progressive scanning
逐鹿中原	zhu	yuan	lit. hunting deer in the Central Plain (idiom); fig. to attempt to seize the throne
递推公式	di	shi	recurrence formula
递推关系	di	xi	(math.) recurrence relation
递条子	di	zi	to pass a message
递眼色	di	se	to give sb a meaningful look
逗人发笑	dou	xiao	to make people laugh
逗人喜爱	dou	ai	cute
逗哈哈	dou	ha	to joke; to crack a joke
逗笑儿	dou	r	erhua variant of 逗笑[dou4 xiao4]
逗趣儿	dou	r	to amuse; to make sb laugh; to tease
逗闷子	dou	zi	(dialect) to joke
通便剂	tong	ji	(pharmacology) a laxative
通俗小说	tong	shuo	popular fiction; light literature
通俗易懂	tong	dong	easy to understand
通俗来讲	tong	jiang	to put it in simple terms, ...
通俗科学	tong	xue	popular science
通信兵	tong	bing	(military) signaller; signalman
通信卫星	tong	xing	communications satellite
通信地址	tong	zhi	mail address
通信技术	tong	shu	communications technology
通信网络	tong	luo	communications network
通假字	tong	zi	phonetic loan character; using one character interchangeably for phonetically related characters
通关密语	tong	yu	password
通关文牒	tong	die	passport
通关节	tong	jie	to facilitate by means of bribery
通力合作	tong	zuo	to join forces; to give full cooperation
通化县	tong	xian	Tonghua, a county in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
通化市	tong	shi	Tonghua, prefecture-level city in Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
通古斯	tong	si	Tungus
通商口岸	tong	an	treaty port, forced on Qing China by the 19th century Great Powers
通城县	tong	xian	Tongcheng, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
通天彻地	tong	di	to know all under heaven; exceptionally talented (idiom)
通宵达旦	tong	dan	overnight until daybreak (idiom); all night long; day and night
通山县	tong	xian	Tongshan, a county in Xianning City 咸寧市|咸宁市[Xian2 ning2 Shi4], Hubei
通川区	tong	qu	Tongchuan, a district of Dazhou City 達州市|达州市[Da2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
通州区	tong	qu	Tongzhou, a district of Beijing; Tongzhou, a district of Nantong City 南通市[Nan2 tong1 Shi4], Jiangsu
通布图	tong	tu	Timbuktoo (town in Mali)
通心粉	tong	fen	macaroni
通心菜	tong	cai	see 空心菜[kong1 xin1 cai4]
通心面	tong	mian	macaroni
通情达理	tong	li	(idiom) fair and reasonable; sensible; standing to reason
通才教育	tong	yu	liberal education; general education
通权达变	tong	bian	to adapt to circumstances
通榆县	tong	xian	Tongyu, a county in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
通气会	tong	hui	briefing
通气孔	tong	kong	an airvent; a louvre; airflow orifice
通江县	tong	xian	Tongjiang, a county in Bazhong City 巴中市[Ba1 zhong1 Shi4], Sichuan
通河县	tong	xian	Tonghe, a county in Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
通海县	tong	xian	Tonghai, a county in Yuxi City 玉溪市[Yu4 xi1 Shi4], Yunnan
通渭县	tong	xian	Tongwei, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
通灵板	tong	ban	Ouija board
通用串行总线	tong	xian	(computing) Universal Serial Bus; USB
通用人工智能	tong	neng	artificial general intelligence (AGI)
通用字符集	tong	ji	universal character set UCS
通用性	tong	xing	universality
通用拼音	tong	yin	the common use romanization system introduced in Taiwan in 2003
通用汉字标准交换码	tong	ma	Standard Interchange Code for Generally Used Chinese Characters, a character encoding standard of Taiwan 1986-1992, aka CNS 11643-1986, where CNS stands for Chinese National Standard; abbr. to 通用碼|通用码[Tong1 yong4 ma3]
通用汽车	tong	che	General Motors (car company)
通用汽车公司	tong	si	General Motors
通用电器	tong	qi	General Electric (GE)
通用电气	tong	qi	General Electric (GE)
通用码	tong	ma	Standard Interchange Code for Generally Used Chinese Characters, a character encoding standard of Taiwan 1986-1992, aka CNS 11643-1986, where CNS stands for Chinese National Standard (abbr. for 通用漢字標準交換碼|通用汉字标准交换码[Tong1 yong4 Han4 zi4 Biao1 zhun3 Jiao1 huan4 ma3])
通用航空	tong	kong	general aviation
通用语	tong	yu	common language; lingua franca
通电话	tong	hua	to phone sb up
通知书	tong	shu	written notice
通知单	tong	dan	notification; notice; ticket
通缉令	tong	ling	order for arrest; wanted circular; wanted poster
通缉犯	tong	fan	wanted criminal; fugitive (from the law)
通胀率	tong	lv	inflation rate
通脱木	tong	mu	rice-paper plant (Tetrapanax papyriferus)
通行无阻	tong	zu	unobstructed passage; to go through unhindered
通行税	tong	shui	toll
通行证	tong	zheng	a pass (authority to enter); a laissez-passer or safe conduct
通讯作者	tong	zhe	corresponding author (of an academic paper)
通讯协定	tong	ding	(Tw) (computing) communication protocol
通讯卫星	tong	xing	communications satellite
通讯员	tong	yuan	correspondent; reporter; messenger boy
通讯地址	tong	zhi	mailing address; postal address
通讯处	tong	chu	contact address
通讯录	tong	lu	address book; directory
通讯社	tong	she	a news service (e.g. Xinhua)
通讯系统	tong	tong	communication system
通讯自动化	tong	hua	communications automation
通讯院士	tong	shi	corresponding member (of an academy); junior academician
通许县	tong	xian	Tongxu, a county in Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
通识培训	tong	xun	general culture
通识教育	tong	yu	general education
通识课程	tong	cheng	general course; general education course; core course
通货紧缩	tong	suo	deflation
通货膨胀	tong	zhang	inflation
通辽市	tong	shi	Tongliao, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
通道侗族自治县	tong	xian	Tongdao Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
通道县	tong	xian	see 通道侗族自治縣|通道侗族自治县[Tong1 dao4 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
通配符	tong	fu	wildcard character (computing)
通风口	tong	kou	air vent; opening for ventilation
通风孔	tong	kong	air vent; louvre
通风管	tong	guan	ventilation duct
速克达	su	da	(loanword) scooter
速可达	su	da	(loanword) scooter
速度滑冰	su	bing	speed skating
速度计	su	ji	speedometer
速录师	su	shi	stenographer
速成班	su	ban	intensive course; crash course
速战速决	su	jue	(idiom) to adopt a blitzkrieg strategy; to resolve sth in the shortest time possible
速手排	su	pai	gears (in a car)
速效性毒剂	su	ji	quick-acting agent
速效救心丸	su	wan	fast-acting heart pills (a medication developed in China in 1982 to treat heart conditions including angina)
速溶咖啡	su	fei	instant coffee
速记员	su	yuan	stenographer
速调管	su	guan	klystron (electronic tube used to produce high frequency radio waves)
速赐康	su	kang	(Tw) (coll.) pentazocine (a synthetic opioid analgesic)
速食店	su	dian	fast food shop
速食面	su	mian	instant noodles
造反派	zao	pai	rebel faction
造型师	zao	shi	stylist (fashion); cartoon character designer
造型服装	zao	zhuang	costume
造型气球	zao	qiu	balloon modeling; balloon twisting
造型艺术	zao	shu	visual arts
造型蛋糕	zao	gao	custom-designed cake (e.g. cake shaped like a guitar, camera or cartoon character)
造型跳伞	zao	san	formation skydiving
造山作用	zao	yong	orogeny (geology)
造山带	zao	dai	orogenic belt (geology)
造山运动	zao	dong	mountain building (geology); orogenesis
造岩矿物	zao	wu	rock-forming mineral
造币厂	zao	chang	mint; CL:座[zuo4]
造父变星	zao	xing	(astronomy) Cepheid variable star
造物主	zao	zhu	the Creator (in religion or mythology); God
造福万民	zao	min	to benefit thousands of people
造福社群	zao	qun	to benefit the community
造纸术	zao	shu	papermaking process
造舆论	zao	lun	to build up public opinion; to create a fuss
造船厂	zao	chang	dockyard; shipyard
造船所	zao	suo	shipyard
造茧自缚	zao	fu	to spin a cocoon around oneself (idiom); enmeshed in a trap of one's own devising; hoist with his own petard
造血干细胞	zao	bao	blood generating stem cells (in bone marrow)
造谣生事	zao	shi	to start rumours and create trouble
逡巡不前	qun	qian	to hesitate to move forward; to balk; to jib
逢人便讲	feng	jiang	to tell anybody one happens to meet
逢凶化吉	feng	ji	misfortune turns to blessing (idiom); to turn an inauspicious start to good account
逢场作戏	feng	xi	lit. find a stage, put on a comedy (idiom); to join in the fun; to play along according to local conditions
逢年过节	feng	jie	during holidays and festivals; on festive occasions such as New Year
逸尘断鞅	yi	yang	lit. kicking up the dust and breaking the harness; fig. to ride like the wind (idiom)
逻各斯	luo	si	(loanword) (philosophy) logos
逻辑学	luo	xue	logic
逻辑演算	luo	suan	logical calculation
逻辑炸弹	luo	dan	logic bomb
逻辑链路控制	luo	zhi	logical link control; LLC
逻辑错误	luo	wu	logical error
逻辑门	luo	men	logic gate
逼上梁山	bi	shan	driven to join the Liangshan Mountain rebels; to drive to revolt; to force sb to desperate action
逼人太甚	bi	shen	to push sb too far; to go too far (in oppressing people)
逼供信	bi	xin	to obtain confessions by compulsion; confession under duress
逼良为娼	bi	chang	to force an honest girl into prostitution (idiom); to debauch
逾越节	yu	jie	Passover (Jewish holiday)
遁入空门	dun	men	to take refuge in religious life
遂宁市	sui	shi	Suining, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
遂川县	sui	xian	Suichuan, a county in Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
遂平县	sui	xian	Suiping, a county in Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
遂心如意	sui	yi	totally satisfying
遂昌县	sui	xian	Suichang, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
遂溪县	sui	xian	Suixi, a county in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
遇事生风	yu	feng	to stir up trouble at every opportunity (idiom)
遇人不淑	yu	shu	(idiom) to be in a relationship with or marry a bad person; (idiom) to associate with a bad person
遇强则强	yu	qiang	tough adversaries make you stronger
遇难者	yu	zhe	victim; fatality
遇难船	yu	chuan	shipwreck
遇雨顺延	yu	yan	to postpone (an activity) in the event of wet weather
遍体鳞伤	bian	shang	(idiom) covered all over with cuts and bruises; beaten black and blue
遍地开花	bian	hua	(idiom) to blossom everywhere; to spring up all over the place; to flourish on a large scale
遐迩一体	xia	ti	both near and distant treated alike (idiom)
遐迩皆知	xia	zhi	known far and wide
遐迩闻名	xia	ming	see 聞名遐邇|闻名遐迩[wen2 ming2 xia2 er3]
道不同不相为谋	dao	mou	lit. persons who walk different paths cannot make plans together; to go separate ways (idiom)
道不拾遗	dao	yi	lit. no one picks up lost articles in the street (idiom); fig. honesty prevails throughout society
道之所存师之所存	dao	cun	If sb has grasped the truth before you, take him as your teacher (Tang dynasty essayist Han Yu 韓愈|韩愈[Han2 Yu4]).; We should learn from one who knows the way.
道光帝	dao	di	Daoguang Emperor
道具服	dao	fu	costume
道卡斯族	dao	zu	Taokas, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
道听途说	dao	shuo	gossip; hearsay; rumor
道外区	dao	qu	Daowai, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
道孚县	dao	xian	Dawu, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
道尔顿	dao	dun	Dalton (name); John Dalton (1766-1844), British scientist who contributed to atomic theory
道山学海	dao	hai	mountain of Dao, sea of learning (idiom); learning is as high as the mountains, as wide as the seas; ars longa, vita brevis
道德困境	dao	jing	ethical dilemma
道德家	dao	jia	Daoist
道德沦丧	dao	sang	moral bankruptcy; moral degeneracy
道德经	dao	jing	the Book of Dao by Laozi or Lao-Tze, the sacred text of Daoism
道德绑架	dao	jia	to coerce by invoking moral obligations (duty, sacrifice, reciprocation etc); to lay a guilt trip on sb
道德观	dao	guan	one's perspective on morality
道德认识	dao	shi	moral cognition; ethical awareness
道德败坏	dao	huai	vice; immorality; moral turpitude
道德高地	dao	di	moral high ground
道拉吉里峰	dao	feng	Dhaulagiri, mountain massif in the Himalayas
道教徒	dao	tu	a Daoist; a follower of Daoism
道格拉斯	dao	si	Douglas (name)
道琼斯	dao	si	Dow Jones (stock market index)
道琼斯指数	dao	shu	Dow Jones Industrial Average
道真县	dao	xian	see 道真仡佬族苗族自治縣|道真仡佬族苗族自治县[Dao4 zhen1 Ge1 lao3 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
道貌岸然	dao	ran	sanctimonious; dignified
道路工程	dao	cheng	road construction
道里区	dao	qu	Daoli, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
道高一尺魔高一丈	dao	zhang	(saying) as one climbs higher on the path of righteousness, one faces ever greater challenges from evil; no sooner does one overcome one obstacle than another arises
道高益安势高益危	dao	wei	More moral strength increases one's safety, more power and influence increases one's danger (idiom, from Records of the Historian 史記|史记). cf Unlimited power is apt to corrupt the minds of those who possess it (William Pitt the Elder, 1770).
遗产税	yi	shui	inheritance tax; estate tax
遗传信息	yi	xi	genetic information
遗传学	yi	xue	genetics
遗传工程	yi	cheng	genetic engineering
遗传性	yi	xing	hereditary; inherited; genetic
遗传性疾病	yi	bing	genetic disorder
遗传物质	yi	zhi	genetic material
遗传率	yi	lv	heritability
遗体告别式	yi	shi	funeral
遗害无穷	yi	qiong	to have disastrous consequences; also written 貽害無窮|贻害无穷[yi2 hai4 wu2 qiong2]
遗忘症	yi	zheng	amnesia
遗腹子	yi	zi	child born after the father's death; posthumous child
遗臭万年	yi	nian	to have one's name go down in history as a byword for infamy (idiom)
遛弯儿	liu	r	erhua variant of 遛彎|遛弯[liu4 wan1]
遣散费	qian	fei	severance pay
遣送出境	qian	jing	to deport
遥不可及	yao	ji	unattainable; far-fetched; out of reach
遥控器	yao	qi	a remote control
遥控操作	yao	zuo	remote operation
遥控车	yao	che	radio-controlled car (hobbyist's model car)
遥遥无期	yao	qi	far in the indefinite future (idiom); so far away it seems forever
遥遥领先	yao	xian	(idiom) a long way in front; to lead by a wide margin
遭遇战	zao	zhan	(military) encounter; skirmish
遮天蔽日	zhe	ri	lit. hiding the sky and covering the earth (idiom); fig. earth-shattering; omnipresent; of universal importance
遮护板	zhe	ban	shield; protective board
遮瑕膏	zhe	gao	concealer (cosmetics)
遮目鱼	zhe	yu	milkfish (Chanos chanos)
遮羞布	zhe	bu	loincloth; (fig.) fig leaf; CL:塊|块[kuai4]
遮遮掩掩	zhe	yan	to be secretive; to try to cover up (idiom)
遮阳板	zhe	ban	sun visor; sunshade; sunshading board
遮风避雨	zhe	yu	to give shelter from the wind and rain; to keep out the elements
遵义会议	zun	yi	Zunyi conference of January 1935 before the Long March
遵义市	zun	shi	Zunyi, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
遵化市	zun	shi	Zunhua, a county-level city in Tangshan City 唐山市[Tang2 shan1 Shi4], Hebei
遵医嘱	zun	zhu	to follow the doctor's advice; as instructed by the physician
遵时养晦	zun	hui	to bide one's time, waiting for an opportunity to stage a comeback in public life (idiom)
避不见面	bi	mian	to refuse to meet sb; to avoid sb
避世绝俗	bi	su	(idiom) to withdraw from society and live in seclusion
避其锐气击其惰归	bi	gui	avoid the enemy when he is fresh and strike him when he is tired and withdraws (idiom)
避坑落井	bi	jing	to dodge a pit only to fall into a well (idiom); out of the frying pan into the fire
避孕丸	bi	wan	contraceptive pill
避孕套	bi	tao	condom; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
避孕环	bi	huan	coil; contraceptive coil; intrauterine device
避孕药	bi	yao	oral contraceptive
避实击虚	bi	xu	see 避實就虛|避实就虚[bi4 shi2 jiu4 xu1]
避实就虚	bi	xu	(idiom) stay clear of the enemy's main force and strike at his weak points
避弹坑	bi	keng	foxhole
避暑山庄	bi	zhuang	mountain resort; Qing imperial summer residence at Chengde, a world heritage site
避税天堂	bi	tang	tax haven
避税港	bi	gang	tax haven
避而不	bi	bu	to avoid (doing sth)
避蚊胺	bi	an	DEET, an insect repellent
避重就轻	bi	qing	to avoid the important and dwell on the trivial; to keep silent about major charges while admitting minor ones
避难所	bi	suo	a refuge; a haven; a sanctuary
避雷器	bi	qi	lightning arrester
避雷针	bi	zhen	lightning rod
避震器	bi	qi	shock absorber
避震鞋	bi	xie	cushioning shoes (Tw)
避风塘	bi	tang	typhoon shelter (a cove where boats shelter from strong winds and rough seas, esp. in Hong Kong); (attributive) typhoon shelter-style, a cooking method associated with those who lived on boats in the coves, where crab, prawn or other meat is fried and flavored with spices and black beans
避风处	bi	chu	lee; windstop
避风头	bi	tou	to lie low (until the fuss dies down)
避风港	bi	gang	haven; refuge; harbor; CL:座[zuo4],個|个[ge4]
邀买人心	yao	xin	to buy popular support; to court favor
邀请函	yao	han	invitation letter; CL:封[feng1]
邀请赛	yao	sai	invitation tournament (e.g. between schools or firms)
邈冥冥	miao	ming	far off; distant
邋里邋遢	la	ta	messy; slovenly; unkempt
邓世昌	deng	chang	Deng Shichang (1849-1894), Qing dynasty naval specialist, founded naval dockyards and two naval colleges, died heroically in action against the Japanese
邓丽君	deng	jun	Teresa Teng (1953–1995), Taiwanese singer
邓亚萍	deng	ping	Deng Yaping (1973-), table tennis player, several times world and Olympic winner
邓亮洪	deng	hong	Tang Liang Hong (opposition candidate in Jan 1996 Singapore elections)
邓小平	deng	ping	Deng Xiaoping (1904-1997), Chinese communist leader, de facto leader of PRC 1978-1990 and creator of "socialism with Chinese characteristics"
邓小平理论	deng	lun	Deng Xiaoping Theory; Dengism; the foundation of PRC economic development after the Cultural Revolution, building the capitalist economy within Chinese Communist Party control
邓州市	deng	shi	Dengzhou, a county-level city in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
邓紫棋	deng	qi	G.E.M. (1991-), Chinese pop star
邓颖超	deng	chao	Deng Yingchao (1904-1992), Chinese communist leader, wife of Zhou Enlai 周恩來|周恩来
邕宁区	yong	qu	Yongning, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
邗江区	han	qu	Hanjiang, a district of Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
邙山行	mang	xing	a form of Yuefu 樂府|乐府 mourning song or elegy; lit. to visit a tomb on Mt Mang
邛崃山	qiong	shan	Qionglai Mountains in western Sichuan between the Min 岷江[Min2 Jiang1] and Dadu 大渡河[Da4 du4 He2] rivers
邛崃山脉	qiong	mai	Qionglai mountains on the boundary of the Sichuan basin 四川盆地
邛崃市	qiong	shi	Qionglai, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
邢台市	xing	shi	Xingtai, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
那不勒斯	na	si	Napoli, capital of Campania region of Italy; Naples
那不勒斯王国	na	guo	Kingdom of Naples (1282-1860)
那个人	na	ren	lit. that person; fig. the person you have been looking for; Mr Right
那么着	na	zhe	(do sth) that way; like that
那会儿	na	r	at that time (in the past or the future); also pr. [nei4 hui4 r5]
那倒是	na	shi	Oh that's true! (interjection of sudden realization)
那古屋	na	wu	Nagoya, city in Japan (old spelling)
那坡县	na	xian	Napo, a county in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
那拉提草原	na	yuan	Nalat grasslands
那摩温	na	wen	foreman (pidgin derived from "number one", rendered in hanzi) (old)
那斯达克	na	ke	(Tw) Nasdaq (stock exchange)
那时候	na	hou	at that time
那曲市	na	shi	Nagqu, prefecture-level city in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
那空沙旺	na	wang	Paknampho city, Thailand
那维克	na	ke	Narvik (city in Nordland, Norway)
那话儿	na	r	(coll.) that thing; that matter; you-know-what; (euphemism) sexual organ
那达慕	na	mu	Nadam or Games, Mongolian national harvest festival in July-August
那还用说	na	shuo	that goes without saying
那阵子	na	zi	at that time; then
那鸿书	na	shu	Book of Nahum
邦交国	bang	guo	country with which diplomatic relations are maintained
邪不敌正	xie	zheng	good will always triumph over evil (idiom)
邪典电影	xie	ying	cult film
邪恶轴心	xie	xin	the Axis of Evil
邪知邪见	xie	jian	false wisdom and erroneous views (Buddhism)
邪门歪道	xie	dao	lit. devil's gate, crooked path (idiom); corrupt practices; crooked methods; dishonesty
邮务士	you	shi	mailman (Tw)
邮政信箱	you	xiang	post office box
邮政区码	you	ma	PRC postcode, e.g. 361000 for Xiamen or Amoy 廈門|厦门[Xia4 men2], Fujian
邮政局	you	ju	post office
邮政式拼音	you	yin	Chinese postal romanization, developed in the early 1900s, used until the 1980s
邮政编码	you	ma	postal code; zip code
邮递区号	you	hao	(Tw) postal code; ZIP code
邮递员	you	yuan	mailman
邯山区	han	qu	Hanshan, a district of Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
邯郸学步	han	bu	to copy the way they walk in Handan (idiom); slavishly copying others, one risks becoming a caricature
邯郸市	han	shi	Handan, prefecture-level city in Hebei Province 河北省[He2 bei3 Sheng3]
邱吉尔	qiu	er	Winston Churchill (1874–1965), UK politican and prime minister 1940–1945 and 1951–1955; surname Churchill
邱比特	qiu	te	(Tw) variant of 丘比特[Qiu1 bi3 te4]
邳州市	pi	shi	Pizhou, a county-level city in Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
邵东市	shao	shi	Shaodong, a county-level city in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
邵伯湖	shao	hu	Shaobo Lake, freshwater lake in Jiangsu Province
邵武市	shao	shi	Shaowu, a county-level city in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
邵逸夫	shao	fu	Run Run Shaw (1907-2014), Hong Kong movie and television tycoon
邵阳县	shao	xian	Shaoyang, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
邵阳市	shao	shi	Shaoyang, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
邵飘萍	shao	ping	Shao Piaoping (1884-1926), pioneer of journalism and founder of newspaper Beijing Press 京報|京报, executed in 1926 by warlord Zhang Zuolin 張作霖|张作霖
邷么儿	wa	r	to play knucklebones (dialect)
邹城市	zou	shi	Zoucheng, a county-level city in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
邹平市	zou	shi	Zouping, a county-level city in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
邹韬奋	zou	fen	Zou Taofen (1895-1944), journalist, political theorist and publisher
邻水县	lin	xian	Linshui, a county in Guang'an City 廣安市|广安市[Guang3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
邻苯二甲酸酯	lin	zhi	phthalate (chemistry)
邻苯醌	lin	kun	1,2-benzoquinone (chemistry); ortho-benzoquinone
郁南县	yu	xian	Yunan, a county in Yunfu City 雲浮市|云浮市[Yun2 fu2 Shi4], Guangdong
郁达夫	yu	fu	Yu Dafu (1896-1945), poet and novelist
郁郁不乐	yu	le	discontented (idiom)
郁郁不得志	yu	zhi	soured by the loss of one's hopes
郁郁寡欢	yu	huan	(idiom) depressed; cheerless
郁郁葱葱	yu	cong	(idiom) (of plants) verdant; lush
郁金香	yu	xiang	tulip
郇山隐修会	xun	hui	Priory of Zion (fictional masonic order)
郎世宁	lang	ning	Giuseppe Castiglione (1688–1766), Jesuit missionary and artist who served as a painter in the Qing court for 50 years
郎之万	lang	wan	Langevin (name)
郎才女貌	lang	mao	talented man and beautiful woman; ideal couple
郎溪县	lang	xian	Langxi, a county in Xuancheng City 宣城市[Xuan1 cheng2 Shi4], Anhui
郎肯循环	lang	huan	Rankine cycle (engineering)
郑人买履	zheng	lv	(lit.) the person from Zheng 鄭|郑[Zheng4] who wanted to buy shoes (an allusion to an ancient story about somebody who, when buying a pair of shoes, preferred to rely on their foot measurements rather than just trying them on) (idiom); (fig.) disregarding the sensible approach in favor of adherence to a fixed idea
郑人争年	zheng	nian	Men of Zheng fighting over their respective ages (idiom); a futile quarrel
郑伊健	zheng	jian	Ekin Cheng (1967-), Hong Kong actor and pop singer
郑光祖	zheng	zu	Zheng Guangzu, Yuan dynasty dramatist in the 雜劇|杂剧 tradition of musical comedy, one of the Four Great Yuan dramatists 元曲四大家
郑国渠	zheng	qu	Zhengguo canal, a 150 km long irrigation canal in Shaanxi built in 264 BC
郑州大学	zheng	xue	Zhengzhou University
郑州市	zheng	shi	Zhengzhou, prefecture-level city and capital of Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
郑幸娟	zheng	juan	Zheng Xingjuan (1989–), Chinese female high jumper
郑成功	zheng	gong	Koxinga (1624-1662), military leader
郑易里	zheng	li	Zheng Yili (1906-2002), translator, editor and lexicographer, creator of the Zheng coding
郑梦准	zheng	zhun	Chung Mongjoon (1951-), Korean magnate and the founder of Hyundai 現代|现代[Xian4 dai4]
郑裕玲	zheng	ling	Carol "Dodo" Cheng Yu-Ling (1957-), Hong Kong actress and TV host
郑重其事	zheng	shi	serious about the matter
郓城县	yun	xian	Yuncheng, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
郝海东	hao	dong	Hao Haidong (1970-), former Chinese soccer player
郡治安官	jun	guan	sheriff
郢书燕说	ying	shuo	lit. Ying writes a letter and Yan reads it; fig. to misinterpret the original meaning; to pile up errors
郧西县	yun	xian	Yunxi, a county in Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
郧阳区	yun	qu	Yunyang, a district of Shiyan City 十堰市[Shi2 yan4 Shi4], Hubei
部分工时	bu	shi	(Tw) part-time work
部落客	bu	ke	blogger (Tw)
部落格	bu	ge	blog (loanword) (Tw)
部长会	bu	hui	minister level conference
部长会议	bu	yi	minister level conference
部长级	bu	ji	ministerial level (e.g. negotiations)
部长级会议	bu	yi	minister level conference
部队锅	bu	guo	budae jjigae, a type of Korean stew
部首编排法	bu	fa	dictionary arrangement of Chinese characters under radicals
郫都区	pi	qu	Pidu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
郭台铭	guo	ming	Guo "Terry" Taiming (1950-), prominent Taiwanese businessman, founder of Foxconn
郭子仪	guo	yi	Guo Ziyi (697–781), Tang dynasty general who helped suppress the An Lushan Rebellion and served multiple emperors
郭小川	guo	chuan	Guo Xiaochuan (1919-1976), PRC communist poet, hero in the war with Japan, died after long persecution during Cultural Revolution
郭居静	guo	jing	Lazzaro Cattaneo (1560-1640), Italian Jesuit missionary in China
郭嵩焘	guo	tao	Guo Songtao (1818–1891), Chinese statesman and diplomat, served as minister to Britain and minister to France 1877–1879
郭敬明	guo	ming	Guo Jingming (1983-), Chinese young-adult fiction writer and teen pop idol
郭晶晶	guo	jing	Guo Jingjing (1981-), Chinese female diver and Olympic gold medalist
郭永怀	guo	huai	Guo Yonghuai (1909-1968), Chinese aviation pioneer
郭沫若	guo	ruo	Guo Moruo (1892-1978), writer, communist party intellectual and cultural apparatchik
郭茂倩	guo	qian	Guo Maoqian (11th century), Song dynasty editor of the Collection of Yuefu Songs and Ballads 樂府詩集|乐府诗集[Yue4 fu3 Shi1 ji2]
郯城县	tan	xian	Tancheng, a county in Linyi City 臨沂市|临沂市[Lin2 yi2 Shi4], Shandong
郴州市	chen	shi	Chenzhou, prefecture-level city in Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
郸城县	dan	xian	Dancheng, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
都什么年代了	dou	le	What decade are you living in?; That's so out-of-date!
都会传奇	du	qi	urban legend (translation of recent Western term); story or theory circulated as true; same as 都市傳奇|都市传奇
都兰县	du	xian	Dulan, a county in Haixi Mongol and Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海西蒙古族藏族自治州[Hai3 xi1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
都匀市	du	shi	Duyun, a county-level city in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
都卜勒	dou	le	variant of 多普勒[Duo1 pu3 le4]
都安县	du	xian	see 都安瑤族自治縣|都安瑶族自治县[Du1 an1 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
都安瑶族自治县	du	xian	Du'an Yao Autonomous County, in Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
都察院	du	yuan	(Ming and Qing dynasties) Censorate, a body overseeing officials and investigating corruption
都市传奇	du	qi	urban legend (translation of recent Western term); story or theory circulated as true; same as 都會傳奇|都会传奇
都市传说	du	shuo	urban legend; urban myth
都市化	du	hua	to urbanize
都市病	du	bing	lifestyle diseases
都庞岭	du	ling	Dupang mountain range between south Hunan and Guangdong
都拉斯	dou	si	Durrës (city in Albania)
都昌县	du	xian	Duchang, a county in Jiujiang City 九江市[Jiu3 jiang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
都更案	du	an	urban development project
都柏林	du	lin	Dublin, capital of Ireland
都江堰	du	yan	Dujiangyan in Sichuan, a famous water engineering project and World Heritage Site; see 都江堰市[Du1 jiang1 yan4 Shi4]
都江堰市	du	shi	Dujiangyan, a county-level city in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
都铎王朝	du	chao	Tudor Dynasty, ruled England 1485-1603
郾城区	yan	qu	Yancheng, a district of Luohe City 漯河市[Luo4 he2 Shi4], Henan
鄂伦春	e	chun	Oroqen ethnic group
鄂伦春族	e	zu	Oroqen ethnic group
鄂伦春自治旗	e	qi	Oroqin Autonomous Banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
鄂图曼帝国	e	guo	Ottoman Empire (Tw)
鄂城区	e	qu	Echeng, a district of Ezhou City 鄂州市[E4 zhou1 Shi4], Hubei
鄂尔多斯	e	si	see 鄂爾多斯市|鄂尔多斯市[E4 er3 duo1 si1 Shi4]
鄂尔多斯市	e	shi	Ordos, prefecture-level city in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
鄂尔多斯沙漠	e	mo	Ordos Desert, Inner Mongolia
鄂尔多斯高原	e	yuan	Ordos Plateau, Inner Mongolia
鄂州市	e	shi	Ezhou, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
鄂托克	e	ke	Otog banner or Otgiin khoshuu in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
鄂托克前旗	e	qi	Otog Front banner or Otgiin Ömnöd khoshuu in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
鄂托克旗	e	qi	Otog banner or Otgiin khoshuu in Ordos 鄂爾多斯|鄂尔多斯[E4 er3 duo1 si1], Inner Mongolia
鄂温克	e	ke	Evenki ethnic group
鄂温克族	e	zu	Evenki ethnic group
鄂温克族自治旗	e	qi	Evenk Autonomous Banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
鄂温克语	e	yu	Ewenke language (of Ewenke ethnic group of Inner Mongolia)
鄂霍次克海	e	hai	Sea of Okhotsk
鄄城县	juan	xian	Juancheng, a county in Heze City 菏澤市|菏泽市[He2 ze2 Shi4], Shandong
鄙视链	bi	lian	a ranking of items in a particular category, with the most highly regarded on top (neologism c. 2012, coined by analogy with 食物鏈|食物链[shi2 wu4 lian4], food chain)
鄞州区	yin	qu	Yinzhou, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
鄠邑区	hu	qu	Huyi, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
鄢陵县	yan	xian	Yanling, a county in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
鄯善县	shan	xian	Shanshan, a county in Turpan City 吐魯番市|吐鲁番市[Tu3 lu3 fan1 Shi4], Xinjiang
鄱阳县	po	xian	Poyang, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
鄱阳湖	po	hu	Poyang Lake in Shangrao 上饒|上饶[Shang4 rao2], Jiangxi
酉牌时分	you	fen	5-7 pm
酉阳县	you	xian	Youyang Tujia and Miao Autonomous County in Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
酋长国	qiu	guo	Emirate; Sheikdom; used as translation for country under a chief
酌处权	zhuo	quan	discretion; discretionary power
酌情办理	zhuo	li	to act after full consideration of the actual situation
酌情处理	zhuo	li	see 酌情辦理|酌情办理[zhuo2 qing2 ban4 li3]
配件挂勾	pei	gou	accessory hook
配对儿	pei	r	matched pair
配接卡	pei	ka	adapter (device)
配方奶	pei	nai	formula (milk)
配方法	pei	fa	completing the square (method of solving quadratic equation, math.)
配电器	pei	qi	distributor (automobile)
配电柜	pei	gui	power cabinet; switch box
配电站	pei	zhan	power distribution substation
配眼镜	pei	jing	to have a pair of prescription glasses made
配送地址	pei	zhi	delivery address
配送者	pei	zhe	distributor
配速员	pei	yuan	(sports) pacemaker; pacesetter (in long-distance running)
配钥匙	pei	shi	to make a key
配镜人员	pei	yuan	optician
配镜师	pei	shi	optician
酒令儿	jiu	r	erhua variant of 酒令[jiu3 ling4]
酒后吐真言	jiu	yan	after wine, spit out the truth; in vino veritas
酒后驾车	jiu	che	driving under the influence
酒后驾驶	jiu	shi	driving under the influence of alcohol (DUI)
酒囊饭袋	jiu	dai	wine sack, food bag (idiom); useless person, only fit for guzzling and boozing
酒店业	jiu	ye	the catering industry; the hotel and restaurant business
酒托女	jiu	nv	woman hired to lure men to high-priced bars
酒桌文化	jiu	hua	drinking culture
酒水饮料	jiu	liao	drink (on a menu)
酒池肉林	jiu	lin	lakes of wine and forests of meat (idiom); debauchery; sumptuous entertainment
酒泉市	jiu	shi	Jiuquan, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
酒渣鼻	jiu	bi	rosacea (dermatological condition of the face and nose); brandy nose
酒石酸	jiu	suan	tartaric acid
酒精中毒	jiu	du	alcoholism; alcohol poisoning
酒精性	jiu	xing	alcoholic (beverage)
酒精洗手液	jiu	ye	alcohol-based hand sanitizer
酒精灯	jiu	deng	spirit lamp
酒精饮料	jiu	liao	alcoholic beverage
酒糟鼻	jiu	bi	rosacea (dermatological condition of the face and nose); brandy nose
酒红朱雀	jiu	que	(bird species of China) vinaceous rosefinch (Carpodacus vinaceus)
酒肉朋友	jiu	you	lit. drinking buddy (idiom); fig. fair-weather friend
酒至半酣	jiu	han	to drink until one is half drunk
酒色之徒	jiu	tu	follower of wine and women; dissolute person
酒色财气	jiu	qi	wine, sex, avarice and temper (idiom); four cardinal vices
酒蒙子	jiu	zi	(dialect) drunkard; alcoholic
酒言酒语	jiu	yu	words spoken under the influence of alcohol (idiom)
酒足饭饱	jiu	bao	to have eaten and drunk to one's heart's content
酒逢知己千杯少	jiu	shao	a thousand cups of wine is not too much when best friends meet (idiom); when you're with close friends, you can let your hair down
酒酣耳热	jiu	re	tipsy and merry (idiom)
酒馆儿	jiu	r	erhua form of 酒館|酒馆[jiu3 guan3]
酒香不怕巷子深	jiu	shen	fragrant wine fears no dark alley (idiom); quality goods need no advertising
酒鬼酒	jiu	jiu	Jiugui Liquor, liquor company from 吉首[Ji2 shou3]
酗酒滋事	xu	shi	drunken fighting; to get drunk and quarrel
酚甲烷	fen	wan	(Tw) bisphenol A (BPA)
酚醛胶	fen	jiao	phenolic resin (used to manufacture bakelite)
酢浆草	cu	cao	creeping oxalis; edelweiss
酣畅淋漓	han	li	to one's heart's content (idiom)
酥松油脂	su	zhi	shortening (fat used in cooking cakes)
酥油花	su	hua	butter sculpture (Tibetan art form using paint derived from milk products)
酥油茶	su	cha	butter tea (Tibetan, Mongolian etc drink derived from milk)
酩酊大醉	ming	zui	(idiom) dead drunk; plastered; as drunk as a lord
酪农业	lao	ye	(Tw) dairy industry; dairy farming
酪梨莎莎酱	lao	jiang	guacamole
酪梨酱	lao	jiang	(Tw) guacamole; Taiwan pr. [luo4li2jiang4]
酪氨酸	lao	suan	tyrosine (Tyr), an amino acid
酪氨酸代谢病	lao	bing	(medicine) tyrosinosis
酪蛋白	lao	bai	casein (milk protein)
酱油膏	jiang	gao	thickened soy sauce
酵母菌	jiao	jun	yeast; saccharomycete
酵母醇	jiao	chun	zymosterol
酵解作用	jiao	yong	zymolysis
酷刑折磨	ku	mo	torture and cruel treatment
酷斯拉	ku	la	(Tw) Godzilla
酷碰券	ku	quan	(Tw) (loanword) coupon
酸不溜丢	suan	diu	sour; acrid; (of a person) embittered
酸不溜秋	suan	qiu	see 酸不溜丟|酸不溜丢[suan1 bu5 liu1 diu1]
酸乳酪	suan	lao	yogurt
酸儿辣女	suan	nv	if a woman likes to eat sour during pregnancy, she will have a boy; if she likes to eat spicy, she will have a girl (idiom)
酸奶油	suan	you	sour cream
酸奶节	suan	jie	see 雪頓節|雪顿节[Xue3 dun4 jie2]
酸式盐	suan	yan	acid salt
酸溜溜	suan	liu	sour; acid
酸甜苦辣	suan	la	(lit.) sour, sweet, bitter and spicy (idiom); (fig.) all kinds of flavors; the joys and sorrows of life
酸碱值	suan	zhi	pH (chemistry)
酸葡萄	suan	tao	(fig.) sour grapes
酸辣土豆丝	suan	si	hot and sour shredded potato
酸辣汤	suan	tang	hot and sour soup; sour and spicy soup
酸辣粉	suan	fen	hot and sour noodles (Sichuan-origin dish made with starch-based noodles)
酸辣酱	suan	jiang	hot and sour sauce; chutney
酸黄瓜	suan	gua	pickle; pickled cucumber
酿母菌	niang	jun	yeast
酿热物	niang	wu	biological fuel (such as horse dung)
酿造学	niang	xue	zymurgy
酿酒业	niang	ye	brewing industry; wine industry
醇酸树脂	chun	zhi	alkyd resin
醉心于	zui	yu	to be infatuated with
醉熏熏	zui	xun	variant of 醉醺醺[zui4 xun1 xun1]
醉生梦死	zui	si	as if drunk or entranced (idiom); leading a befuddled existence; in a drunken stupor
醉翁之意不在酒	zui	jiu	wine-lover's heart is not in the cup (idiom); a drinker not really interested in alcohol; having an ulterior motive; to have other things in mind
醉酒驾车	zui	che	drunk driving (very high blood alcohol concentration)
醉醺醺	zui	xun	drunk; intoxicated
醋劲儿	cu	r	erhua variant of 醋勁|醋劲[cu4 jin4]
醋坛子	cu	zi	vinegar jar; (fig.) person of a jealous nature
醋海生波	cu	bo	lit. waves on a sea of vinegar; trouble caused by a jealous woman (idiom)
醋磺内酯钾	cu	jia	acesulfame potassium; acesulfame K (an artificial sweetener)
醋酸乙酯	cu	zhi	ethyl acetate; acetidin
醋酸纤维	cu	wei	cellulose acetate (used for film and fiber)
醍醐灌顶	ti	ding	lit. to anoint your head with the purest cream (idiom); fig. to enlighten people with perfect wisdom; flawless Buddhist teaching
醒世恒言	xing	yan	Stories to Awaken the World, vernacular short stories by Feng Menglong 馮夢龍|冯梦龙[Feng2 Meng4 long2] published in 1627
醛固酮	quan	tong	aldosterone
醴泉县	li	xian	Liquan county in Xianyang 咸陽|咸阳, Shaanxi; also written 禮泉縣|礼泉县
醴陵市	li	shi	Liling, a county-level city in Zhuzhou City 株洲市[Zhu1 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
采兰赠芍	cai	shao	(lit.) to pluck orchids and gift peonies (idiom); (fig.) (of lovers) to exchange presents
采兰赠药	cai	yao	see 采蘭贈芍|采兰赠芍[cai3 lan2 zeng4 shao2]
采取行动	cai	dong	to take action; to adopt policies; to move on some issue
采收率	cai	lv	recovery ratio
采样率	cai	lv	sampling rate
采棉机	cai	ji	cotton picker
采煤工作面	cai	mian	(mining) coalface
采石场	cai	chang	stone pit; quarry
采矿业	cai	ye	mining
采矿场	cai	chang	mining area
采砂场	cai	chang	sandpit; sand quarry
采花大盗	cai	dao	notorious rapist; serial rapist
采花贼	cai	zei	rapist
采访记者	cai	zhe	reporter; journalist
采购员	cai	yuan	buyer; purchasing agent
采购商	cai	shang	buyer
释放出狱	shi	yu	to release from jail
释迦佛	shi	fo	Sakyamuni Buddha (Sanskrit: sage of the Sakya); Siddhartha Gautama (563-485 BC), the historical Buddha and founder of Buddhism
释迦牟尼	shi	ni	Shakyamuni (Sanskrit for "the Sage of the Shakyas", i.e. the Buddha, Siddhartha Gautama)
释迦牟尼佛	shi	fo	Sakyamuni Buddha (Sanskrit: sage of the Sakya); Siddhartha Gautama (563-485 BC), the historical Buddha and founder of Buddhism
里克特	li	te	Richter (name); Charles Francis Richter (1900-1985), US physicist and seismologist, after whom the Richter scale is named
里出外进	li	jin	uneven; in disorder; everything sticking out
里勾外连	li	lian	to act from inside in coordination with attackers outside; attacked from both inside and out
里士满	li	man	Richmond (name)
里外里	li	li	all in all; either way
里奇蒙	li	meng	Richmond (place name or surname)
里奥斯	li	si	Ríos (name)
里希特霍芬	li	fen	Ferdinand von Richthofen (1833-1905), German geologist and explorer who published a major foundational study of the geology of China in 1887 and first introduced the term Silk Road 絲綢之路|丝绸之路
里应外合	li	he	to coordinate outside and inside offensives (idiom); (fig.) to act together
里弗赛德	li	de	Riverside
里急后重	li	zhong	(medicine) tenesmus
里斯本	li	ben	Lisbon, capital of Portugal
里朗威	li	wei	Lilongwe, capital of Malawi (Tw)
里氏震级	li	ji	(seismology) Richter scale
里海地鸦	li	ya	(bird species of China) Turkestan ground jay; Pander's ground jay (Podoces panderi)
里瓦几亚条约	li	yue	Treaty of Livadia (1879) between Russia and China, relating to territory in Chinese Turkistan, renegotiated in 1881 (Treaty of St. Petersburg)
里瓦尔多	li	duo	Rivaldo
里程碑	li	bei	milestone
里程表	li	biao	odometer
里程计	li	ji	speedometer (of a vehicle)
里约热内卢	li	lu	Rio de Janeiro
里维埃拉	li	la	riviera (loanword)
里维耶拉	li	la	riviera (loanword) (Tw)
里肌肉	li	rou	loin (of pork)
里贾纳	li	na	Regina city, capital of Saskatchewan province, Canada
里边儿	li	r	erhua variant of 裡邊|里边[li3 bian5]
里里外外	li	wai	inside and out
里长伯	li	bo	neighborhood warden
重中之重	zhong	zhong	of the utmost importance; of highest priority
重义轻利	zhong	li	to value righteousness rather than material gain (idiom)
重于泰山	zhong	shan	heavier than Mt Tai (idiom); fig. extremely serious matter
重修旧好	chong	hao	to make friends again; to renew old cordial relations
重元素	zhong	su	heavy element (such as uranium)
重农抑商	zhong	shang	economic doctrine and policy in traditional China of emphasizing agriculture and suppressing commerce
重出江湖	chong	hu	(of a person) to return to the fray after a period of inactivity; to jump back into the thick of things; (of sth that was once popular) to be resurrected; to make a comeback
重利轻义	zhong	yi	to value material gain over righteousness
重力加速度	zhong	du	(physics) gravitational acceleration
重力场	zhong	chang	gravitational field
重力异常	zhong	chang	gravitational anomaly (geology)
重历旧游	chong	you	to revisit; to return to a previously visited spot
重口味	zhong	wei	strong flavor (spicy, salty etc); (of food) strongly flavored; (of a person) having a preference for strong flavors
重命名	chong	ming	(computing) to rename
重商主义	zhong	yi	mercantilism
重复使力伤害	chong	hai	repetitive strain injury (RSI)
重复性	chong	xing	repetitive
重复性劳损	chong	sun	repetitive strain injury (RSI)
重复法	chong	fa	repetition; duplication; reduplication
重头戏	zhong	xi	opera (or role) involving much singing and action; (fig.) highlight; main feature
重婚罪	chong	zui	bigamy
重孙女	chong	nv	great-granddaughter
重孙子	chong	zi	great-grandson
重定向	chong	xiang	to redirect
重峦叠嶂	chong	zhang	range upon range of mountains (idiom)
重工业	zhong	ye	heavy industry; manufacturing
重庆大学	chong	xue	Chongqing University
重庆市	chong	shi	Chongqing municipality (short name 渝[Yu2])
重形式轻内容	zhong	rong	heavy on form, light on substance; to stress form at the expense of content
重披战袍	chong	pao	(fig.) to re-enter the fray; to return to a field of activity after a period of absence
重提旧事	chong	shi	to raise the same old topic again; to hark back
重操旧业	chong	ye	(idiom) to resume one's old trade
重整奥思定会	zhong	hui	Order of Augustinian Recollects, a mendicant Catholic religious order of friars and nuns
重整旗鼓	chong	gu	lit. to reorganize flags and drums (idiom); to regroup after a setback; to prepare for new initiatives; to attempt a comeback
重文轻武	zhong	wu	to value letters and belittle arms (idiom); to stress civil matters and neglect the military; to prefer the pen to the sword
重新做人	chong	ren	to start a new life; to make a fresh start
重新启动	chong	dong	to reboot; to restart
重新开始	chong	shi	to resume; to restart; to start afresh
重新开机	chong	ji	to restart; to reboot
重新装修	chong	xiu	refurbishment; renovation
重新造林	chong	lin	reforestation
重晶石	zhong	shi	barite (geology)
重机关枪	zhong	qiang	also written 重機槍|重机枪; heavy machine gun
重机枪	zhong	qiang	heavy machine gun
重正化	chong	hua	to renormalize; renormalization
重武器	zhong	qi	heavy weapon
重水反应堆	zhong	dui	heavy water reactor (HWR)
重油蛋糕	zhong	gao	pound cake
重活儿	zhong	r	erhua variant of 重活[zhong4 huo2]
重温旧业	chong	ye	see 重操舊業|重操旧业[chong2 cao1 jiu4 ye4]
重温旧梦	chong	meng	to revive old dreams (idiom); to relive past experiences
重灾区	zhong	qu	area particularly hard-hit by a disaster; disaster area
重现江湖	chong	hu	see 重出江湖[chong2 chu1 jiang1 hu2]
重男轻女	zhong	nv	to value males and attach less importance to females (idiom)
重病特护	zhong	hu	intensive care
重病特护区	zhong	qu	intensive care department (of hospital)
重症监护	zhong	hu	intensive care
重症监护室	zhong	shi	intensive care unit (ICU)
重症肌无力	zhong	li	myasthenia gravis (medicine)
重眼皮	chong	pi	double eyelid; epicanthal fold of upper eyelid (characteristic of Asian people)
重眼皮儿	chong	r	double eyelid; epicanthal fold of upper eyelid (characteristic of Asian people)
重睹天日	chong	ri	to see the light again (idiom); delivered from oppression
重碳酸盐	chong	yan	bicarbonate
重碳酸钙	chong	gai	calcium bicarbonate Ca(HCO3)2
重磅炸弹	zhong	dan	(fig.) sth that produces shockwaves; bombshell (revelation); blockbuster (product)
重离子	zhong	zi	heavy ion (physics)
重组家庭	chong	ting	blended family
重结晶	chong	jing	to recrystallize
重色轻友	zhong	you	paying more attention to a lover than friends (idiom); to value sex over friendship
重要性	zhong	xing	importance
重见天日	chong	ri	to see the light again (idiom); delivered from oppression
重视教育	zhong	yu	to stress education
重起炉灶	chong	zao	to start over from scratch (idiom)
重蹈覆辙	chong	zhe	lit. to follow in the tracks of an overturned cart (idiom); fig. to follow a path that led to failure in the past; to repeat a disastrous mistake
重身子	zhong	zi	pregnant; pregnant woman
重量单位	zhong	wei	unit of weight
重量吨	zhong	dun	dead weight ton
重量级	zhong	ji	(sports) heavyweight class; (fig.) important; major; prominent; influential
重量训练	zhong	lian	weight training (Tw)
重量轻质	zhong	zhi	to value quantity over quality
重金属	zhong	shu	heavy metal
重阳节	chong	jie	Double Ninth or Yang Festival; 9th day of 9th lunar month
重音节	zhong	jie	accented syllable; stress
野叟曝言	ye	yan	Yesou Puyan or Humble Words of a Rustic Elder, monumental Qing novel by Xia Jingqu 夏敬渠[Xia4 Jing4 qu2]
野外定向	ye	xiang	orienteering
野外放养	ye	yang	free-range (breeding livestock or poultry)
野孩子	ye	zi	feral child
野小茴	ye	hui	dill seed
野山椒	ye	jiao	same as 朝天椒[chao2 tian1 jiao1]
野战军	ye	jun	field army
野格利口酒	ye	jiu	Jägermeister (alcoholic drink)
野樱莓	ye	mei	chokeberry (Aronia melanocarpa)
野汉子	ye	zi	woman's lover
野火春风	ye	feng	abbr. for 野火燒不盡，春風吹又生|野火烧不尽，春风吹又生[ye3 huo3 shao1 bu4 jin4 , chun1 feng1 chui1 you4 sheng1]
野狐禅	ye	chan	heresy
野甘蓝	ye	lan	European wild cabbage (Brassica oleracea)
野生动植物园	ye	yuan	wildlife park; safari park
野生动物	ye	wu	wild animal
野生植物	ye	wu	plants in the wild
野生生物基金会	ye	hui	World Wildlife Fund (WWF)
野田佳彦	ye	yan	Noda Yoshihiko (1957-), prime minister of Japan 2011-2012
野胡萝卜	ye	bo	carrot (Daucus carota)
野蛮人	ye	ren	barbarian
野调无腔	ye	qiang	coarse in speech and manner
野路子	ye	zi	(coll.) unorthodox (method etc)
野颠茄	ye	qie	deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna)
野餐垫	ye	dian	picnic blanket
野鸡大学	ye	xue	diploma mill
野鸳鸯	ye	yang	wild mandarin duck; (derog.) illicit lovers; unorthodox couple
野鼬瓣花	ye	hua	wild hemp
量体温	liang	wen	to take sb's temperature
量体裁衣	liang	yi	(lit.) to cut cloth according to the body (idiom); (fig.) to act according to actual circumstances
量体重	liang	zhong	to weigh oneself; to measure sb's weight
量入为出	liang	chu	to assess one's income and spend accordingly (idiom); to live within one's means; You can only spend what you earn.
量力而为	liang	wei	to weigh one's abilities and act accordingly; to act according to one's means; to cut one's coat according to one's cloth
量力而行	liang	xing	to assess one's capabilities and act accordingly (idiom); to act within one's competence; One does what one can.
量化宽松	liang	song	quantitative easing (finance)
量化逻辑	liang	ji	quantificational logic (i.e. first-order logic)
量子力学	liang	xue	quantum mechanics
量子化	liang	hua	quantization (physics)
量子场论	liang	lun	quantum field theory
量子沫	liang	mo	quantum foam (in string theory, and science fiction)
量子电动力学	liang	xue	quantum electrodynamics QED
量子纠缠	liang	chan	quantum entanglement (physics)
量子色动力学	liang	xue	quantum chromodynamics (particle physics)
量子论	liang	lun	quantum theory (physics)
量子阱	liang	jing	(physics) quantum well
量尺寸	liang	cun	to take sb's measurements
量才录用	liang	yong	to assess sb's capabilities and employ him accordingly (idiom); to employ sb competent for the task
量油尺	liang	chi	dipstick; oil measuring rod
量角器	liang	qi	protractor; angle gauge
量贩店	liang	dian	wholesale store; hypermarket
量贩式	liang	shi	at wholesale price
量身定做	liang	zuo	to tailor-make; tailor-made; tailored to
量身定制	liang	zhi	tailor-made
金三角	jin	jiao	Golden Triangle (Southeast Asia)
金东区	jin	qu	Jindong, a district of Jinhua City 金華市|金华市[Jin1 hua2 Shi4], Zhejiang
金丝燕	jin	yan	Aerodramus, genus of birds that use echolocation, a subset of the Collocaliini tribe (swiflets), two of whose species – Aerodramus fuciphagus and Aerodramus maximus – build nests harvested to make bird's nest soup
金丝猴	jin	hou	golden snub-nosed monkey (Rhinopithecus roxellana)
金丝雀	jin	que	canary
金乌西坠玉兔东升	jin	sheng	lit. the golden bird of the sun sets in the west, the jade hare of the moon rises in the east; fig. at sunset
金乡县	jin	xian	Jinxiang, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
金伯利岩	jin	yan	Kimberlite (geology)
金元券	jin	quan	currency issued by Nationalist Government in 1948
金光党	jin	dang	racketeers; con artists
金光闪烁	jin	shuo	spangle
金兰之交	jin	jiao	intimate friendship (idiom)
金兰谱	jin	pu	(old) genealogical records of sworn brothers, each keeping a copy
金冠地莺	jin	ying	(bird species of China) slaty-bellied tesia (Tesia olivea)
金冠戴菊	jin	ju	goldcrest (Regulus regulus); gold-crowned kinglet
金冠树八哥	jin	ge	(bird species of China) golden-crested myna (Ampeliceps coronatus)
金凤区	jin	qu	Jinfeng, a district of Yinchuan City 銀川市|银川市[Yin2 chuan1 Shi4], Ningxia
金刚山	jin	shan	Kumgangsan Tourist Region in east North Korea
金刚座	jin	zuo	Bodhimanda (place of enlightenment associated with a Bodhisattva)
金刚怒目	jin	mu	(idiom) to have a face as terrifying as a temple's guardian deity
金刚总持	jin	chi	Vajradhara
金刚手菩萨	jin	sa	Vajrapani Bodhisattva
金刚杵	jin	chu	vajra scepter (ritual object of Buddhism)
金刚狼	jin	lang	Wolverine, comic book superhero
金刚石	jin	shi	diamond; also called 鑽石|钻石[zuan4 shi2]
金刚砂	jin	sha	carborundum; emery
金刚萨埵	jin	duo	Vajrasattva
金刚钻	jin	zuan	a diamond
金刚鹦鹉	jin	wu	macaw
金匮石室	jin	shi	variant of 金櫃石室|金柜石室[jin1 gui4 shi2 shi4]
金华市	jin	shi	Jinhua, prefecture-level city in Zhejiang Province 浙江省[Zhe4 jiang1 Sheng3]
金华火腿	jin	tui	Jinhua ham
金卤灯	jin	deng	metal halide lamp
金发碧眼	jin	yan	fair-haired and blue-eyed; blonde; of Western appearance
金口河	jin	he	see 金口河區|金口河区[Jin1 kou3 he2 Qu1]
金口河区	jin	qu	Jinkouhe, a district of Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
金台区	jin	qu	Jintai, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
金合欢	jin	huan	acacia
金喉拟啄木鸟	jin	niao	(bird species of China) golden-throated barbet (Psilopogon franklinii)
金国汗	jin	han	the Later Jin dynasty (from 1616-); the Manchu khanate or kingdom that took over as the Qing dynasty in 1644
金圆券	jin	quan	currency issued by Nationalist Government in 1948
金坛区	jin	qu	Jintan, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
金城江	jin	jiang	see 金城江區|金城江区[Jin1 cheng2 jiang1 Qu1]
金城江区	jin	qu	Jinchengjiang, a district of Hechi City 河池市[He2 chi2 Shi4], Guangxi
金城汤池	jin	chi	impregnable fortress
金城镇	jin	zhen	Jincheng (common place name); Chincheng town in Kinmen County 金門縣|金门县[Jin1 men2 xian4] (Kinmen or Quemoy islands), Taiwan
金堂县	jin	xian	Jintang, a county in Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
金塔县	jin	xian	Jinta, a county in Jiuquan City 酒泉市[Jiu3 quan2 Shi4], Gansu
金夏沙	jin	sha	Kinshasa, capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo (Tw)
金大中	jin	zhong	Kim Dae-jung (1926-2009), South Korea politician, president 1998-2003, Nobel peace prize laureate 2000
金天翮	jin	he	Jin Tianhe (1874–1947), late-Qing poet and novelist, co-author of A Flower in a Sinful Sea 孽海花[Nie4 hai3 hua1]
金头扇尾莺	jin	ying	(bird species of China) golden-headed cisticola (Cisticola exilis)
金头穗鹛	jin	mei	(bird species of China) golden babbler (Cyanoderma chrysaeum)
金头缝叶莺	jin	ying	(bird species of China) mountain tailorbird (Phyllergates cuculatus)
金头黑雀	jin	que	(bird species of China) gold-naped finch (Pyrrhoplectes epauletta)
金字塔	jin	ta	pyramid (building or structure)
金字塔式	jin	shi	downward-facing dog (yoga pose)
金宇中	jin	zhong	Kim Woo-jung (1936-), Korean businessman and founder of the Daewoo Group
金安区	jin	qu	Jin'an, a district of Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
金富轼	jin	shi	Kim Busik (1075-1151), court historian of the Korean Georyo dynasty 高麗|高丽[Gao1 li2], compiler of History of Three Kingdoms 三國史記|三国史记[San1 guo2 shi3 ji4]
金寨县	jin	xian	Jinzhai, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
金小蜂	jin	feng	a parisitoid wasp (genus Nasonia)
金屋藏娇	jin	jiao	a golden house to keep one's mistress (idiom); a magnificent house built for a beloved woman
金属疲劳	jin	lao	metal fatigue
金属键	jin	jian	metallic bond
金山区	jin	qu	Jinshan suburban district of Shanghai
金山寺	jin	si	Jinshan Temple, where Fahai lives (from Madam White Snake)
金川区	jin	qu	Jinchuan, a district of Jinchang City 金昌市[Jin1 chang1 Shi4], Gansu
金川县	jin	xian	Jinchuan, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
金州区	jin	qu	Jinzhou, a district of Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
金帐汗国	jin	guo	Golden Horde (ancient state)
金平区	jin	qu	Jinping, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
金平县	jin	xian	see 金平苗族瑤族傣族自治縣|金平苗族瑶族傣族自治县[Jin1 ping2 Miao2 zu2 Yao2 zu2 Dai3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
金平糖	jin	tang	a type of small, bumpy, colored, hard sugar candy (orthographic borrowing from Japanese 金平糖 "konpeitō")
金戈铁马	jin	ma	very powerful army
金斑鸻	jin	heng	(bird species of China) Pacific golden plover (Pluvialis fulva)
金斯敦	jin	dun	Kingstown, capital of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines; Kingston, capital of Jamaica
金无足赤	jin	chi	not all gold is sufficiently red (idiom); no-one is perfect
金日成	jin	cheng	Kim Il Sung (1912-1994) Great Leader of North Korea
金昌市	jin	shi	Jinchang, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
金曜日	jin	ri	Friday (used in ancient Chinese astronomy)
金曲奖	jin	jiang	Golden Melody Awards
金本位	jin	wei	gold standard (monetary system)
金林区	jin	qu	Jinlin, a district of Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
金枝玉叶	jin	ye	golden branch, jade leaves (idiom); fig. blue-blooded nobility, esp. imperial kinsmen or peerless beauty
金枪鱼	jin	yu	tuna
金柜石室	jin	shi	safe places for storing important articles
金桂冠	jin	guan	Kim Kye-gwan (1943-), North Korean diplomat, first vice-foreign minister and chief negotiator 2010-2019
金榜题名	jin	ming	to win top marks in the imperial examinations
金正恩	jin	en	Kim Jong-un (c. 1983-), third son of Kim Jong-il 金正日[Jin1 Zheng4 ri4], supreme leader of North Korea from 2011
金正日	jin	ri	Kim Jong-il (1942-2011), Dear Leader of North Korea 1982-2011
金正男	jin	nan	Kim Jong-nam (1971-2017), the eldest son of Kim Jong-il 金正日[Jin1 Zheng4 ri4]
金正银	jin	yin	former spelling of Kim Jong-un 金正恩[Jin1 Zheng4 en1]
金毛寻回犬	jin	quan	golden retriever
金毛犬	jin	quan	golden retriever (dog breed)
金毛狗	jin	gou	golden retriever (dog breed); Cibotium barometz, Asian tropical tree fern with hairy fronds (used in TCM)
金水区	jin	qu	Jinshui, a district of Zhengzhou City 鄭州市|郑州市[Zheng4 zhou1 Shi4], Henan
金永南	jin	nan	Kim Yong-nam (1928-), North Korean politician, foreign minister 1983-1998, president of the Supreme People's Assembly 1998-2019 (nominal head of state and described as deputy leader)
金汇兑本位制	jin	zhi	gold exchange standard (economics)
金汤力	jin	li	(loanword) gin and tonic
金沙县	jin	xian	Jinsha, a county in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
金沙江	jin	jiang	Jinsha River, the upper course of the Yangtze River 長江|长江[Chang2 Jiang1] in southwestern China
金沙萨	jin	sa	Kinshasa, capital of the Democratic Republic of the Congo
金泳三	jin	san	Kim Young-sam (1927-2015), South Korean politician, president 1993-1998
金渐层	jin	ceng	golden British shorthair (cat)
金湖县	jin	xian	Jinhu, a county in Huai'an City 淮安市[Huai2 an1 Shi4], Jiangsu
金湾区	jin	qu	Jinwan, a district of Zhuhai City 珠海市[Zhu1 hai3 Shi4], Guangdong
金溪县	jin	xian	Jinxi, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
金灿灿	jin	can	golden-bright and dazzling
金熊奖	jin	jiang	Golden Bear, award at the Berlin International Film Festival
金牛区	jin	qu	Jinniu, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
金牛座	jin	zuo	Taurus (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
金狮奖	jin	jiang	Golden Lion, award at the Venice Film Festival
金玉其外败絮其中	jin	zhong	gilded exterior, shabby and ruined on the inside (idiom)
金玉其表败絮其中	jin	zhong	gilded exterior, shabby and ruined on the inside (idiom)
金玉满堂	jin	tang	lit. gold and jade fill the hall (idiom); fig. abundant wealth; abundance of knowledge
金玉良言	jin	yan	gems of wisdom (idiom); priceless advice
金球奖	jin	jiang	Golden Globe Award
金瓜石	jin	shi	Jinguashi, town in Ruifang District, New Taipei City, Taiwan, noted for its historic gold and copper mines, used as a prisoner-of-war camp by the Japanese (1942-1945)
金瓶梅	jin	mei	Jinpingmei or the Golden Lotus (1617), Ming dynasty vernacular novel, formerly notorious and banned for its sexual content
金瓶梅词话	jin	hua	Jinpingmei or the Golden Lotus (1617), Ming dynasty vernacular novel, formerly notorious and banned for its sexual content
金田起义	jin	yi	Jintian Uprising
金盆洗手	jin	shou	lit. to wash one's hands in a gold basin (idiom); fig. to abandon the life of an outlaw
金目鲈	jin	lu	Barramundi; Lates calcarifer (a species of catadromous fish in family Latidae of order Perciformes)
金盾工程	jin	cheng	Golden Shield Project, information system for censorship and surveillance, thought to include the Great Firewall of China 防火長城|防火长城[Fang2 huo3 Chang2 cheng2] as a component
金眶鸻	jin	heng	(bird species of China) little ringed plover (Charadrius dubius)
金眶鹟莺	jin	ying	(bird species of China) green-crowned warbler (Phylloscopus burkii)
金眼鹛雀	jin	que	(bird species of China) yellow-eyed babbler (Chrysomma sinense)
金石丝竹	jin	zhu	(lit.) (music instruments made of) metal, stone, string, and bamboo (idiom); (fig.) traditional Chinese music instruments
金石学	jin	xue	epigraphy
金石良言	jin	yan	gems of wisdom (idiom); priceless advice
金砖国家	jin	jia	BRICS (economic bloc)
金碧荧煌	jin	huang	splendid in green and gold (idiom); looking radiant
金碧辉煌	jin	huang	gold and jade in glorious splendor (idiom); fig. a dazzling sight (e.g. royal palace)
金秀县	jin	xian	see 金秀瑤族自治縣|金秀瑶族自治县[Jin1 xiu4 Yao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
金秀瑶族自治县	jin	xian	Jinxiu Yao Autonomous County, in Laibin City 來賓市|来宾市[Lai2 bin1 Shi4], Guangxi
金科玉律	jin	lv	golden rule; key principle
金童玉女	jin	nv	lit. golden boys and jade maidens (idiom); attendants of the Daoist immortals; fig. lovely young children
金箍棒	jin	bang	golden cudgel, weapon wielded by Sun Wukong in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
金红石	jin	shi	(mineralogy) rutile
金翅噪鹛	jin	mei	(bird species of China) Assam laughingthrush (Trochalopteron chrysopterum)
金翅雀	jin	que	(bird species of China) grey-capped greenfinch (Chloris sinica)
金背三趾啄木鸟	jin	niao	(bird species of China) common flameback (Dinopium javanense)
金胸歌鸲	jin	qu	(bird species of China) firethroat (Calliope pectardens)
金胸雀鹛	jin	mei	(bird species of China) golden-breasted fulvetta (Lioparus chrysotis)
金腰燕	jin	yan	(bird species of China) red-rumped swallow (Cecropis daurica)
金色林鸲	jin	qu	(bird species of China) golden bush robin (Tarsiger chrysaeus)
金色鸦雀	jin	que	(bird species of China) golden parrotbill (Suthora verreauxi)
金茂大厦	jin	sha	Jin Mao Tower, skyscraper in Shanghai
金葱粉	jin	fen	glitter (sparkling material)
金葱胶	jin	jiao	glitter glue
金蝉脱壳	jin	qiao	lit. the cicada sheds its carapace (idiom); fig. to vanish leaving an empty shell; a crafty escape plan
金融业	jin	ye	financial sector; the banking business
金融区	jin	qu	financial district
金融危机	jin	ji	financial crisis
金融家	jin	jia	financier; banker
金融市场	jin	chang	financial market
金融改革	jin	ge	financial reform
金融时报	jin	bao	Financial Times
金融时报指数	jin	shu	Financial Times stock exchange index (FTSE 100 or footsie)
金融机关	jin	guan	financial organization
金融机构	jin	gou	financial institution; banking institution
金融杠杆	jin	gan	financial leverage; leveraging (i.e. buying shares on borrowed funds)
金融界	jin	jie	banking circles; the world of finance
金融系统	jin	tong	financial system
金融衍生产品	jin	pin	financial derivative
金融风暴	jin	bao	banking crisis; storm in financial circles
金融风波	jin	bo	financial crisis; banking crisis
金角湾	jin	wan	Zolotoy Rog or Golden Horn Bay in Vladivostok (famous for its pollution)
金迷纸醉	jin	zui	see 紙醉金迷|纸醉金迷[zhi3 zui4 jin1 mi2]
金里奇	jin	qi	(Newt) Gingrich
金銮殿	jin	dian	throne room
金针花	jin	hua	orange day-lily (Hemerocallis fulva)
金针菇	jin	gu	enoki mushroom (Flammulina velutipes), used in cuisines of Japan, Korea and China, cultivated to be long, thin and white
金针菜	jin	cai	day lily (Hemerocallis), used in Chinese medicine and cuisine
金钱万能	jin	neng	money is omnipotent (idiom); with money, you can do anything; money talks
金钱挂帅	jin	shuai	caring only about money and wealth
金钱豹	jin	bao	leopard
金铃子	jin	zi	chinaberry (Melia azedarach)
金银块	jin	kuai	bullion
金银岛	jin	dao	Treasure Island by R.L. Stevenson 羅伯特·路易斯·斯蒂文森|罗伯特·路易斯·斯蒂文森[Luo2 bo2 te4 · Lu4 yi4 si1 · Si1 di4 wen2 sen1]
金银箔	jin	bo	gold and silver foil; gold and silver leaf
金银花	jin	hua	honeysuckle
金银铜铁锡	jin	xi	the five metals: gold, silver, copper, iron, tin
金镏子	jin	zi	gold ring
金门县	jin	xian	Kinmen County, Taiwan (the Kinmen or Quemoy islands off the Fujian coast); Jinmen county in Quanzhou 泉州[Quan2 zhou1], Fujian
金门岛	jin	dao	Kinmen or Quemoy islands off the Fujian coast, administered by Taiwan
金阁寺	jin	si	Kinkakuji or Golden pavilion in northwest Kyōto 京都, Japan; informal name of Buddhist temple Rokuonji 鹿苑寺[Lu4 yuan4 si4]
金阳县	jin	xian	Jinyang, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
金陵大学	jin	xue	University of Nanking
金雀花	jin	hua	broom; furze (family Fabaceae)
金霉素	jin	su	(pharmacology) chlortetracycline
金霸王	jin	wang	Duracell (US brand of batteries etc)
金顶戴菊	jin	ju	goldcrest (Regulus satrapa)
金顶戴菊鸟	jin	niao	goldcrest (Regulus satrapa)
金额丝雀	jin	que	(bird species of China) red-fronted serin (Serinus pusillus)
金额叶鹎	jin	bei	(bird species of China) golden-fronted leafbird (Chloropsis aurifrons)
金额雀鹛	jin	mei	(bird species of China) golden-fronted fulvetta (Schoeniparus variegaticeps)
金饭碗	jin	wan	secure and lucrative job
金马奖	jin	jiang	Golden Horse Film Festival and Awards
金鱼佬	jin	lao	pedophile (slang, referring to the case of a Hong Kong child abductor who lured girls with the prospect of seeing "goldfish" in his apartment)
金鱼草	jin	cao	snapdragon (Antirrhinum majus)
金鱼藻	jin	zao	hornwort (Ceratophyllum demersum)
金鸡独立	jin	li	golden rooster stands on one leg (tai chi posture); standing on one leg
金鸡纳	jin	na	quinine (Cinchona ledgeriana)
金鸡纳树	jin	shu	Cinchona ledgeriana, tree whose bark contains quinine
金鸡纳霜	jin	shuang	quinine powder
金黄色	jin	se	gold color
金黄鹂	jin	li	(bird species of China) Eurasian golden oriole (Oriolus oriolus)
金龟婿	jin	xu	wealthy son-in-law; wealthy husband
金龟子	jin	zi	scarab
金龟车	jin	che	(Tw) Volkswagen Beetle
釜底抽薪	fu	xin	to take drastic measures to deal with a situation; to pull the carpet from under sb
釜底游鱼	fu	yu	a fish at the bottom of the pot (idiom); in a desperate situation
鉴往知来	jian	lai	to observe the past to foresee the future (idiom, taken loosely from Book of Songs); studying ancient wisdom gives insight into what is to come
鉴真和尚	jian	shang	Jianzhen or Ganjin (688-763), Tang Buddhist monk, who crossed to Japan after several unsuccessful attempts, influential in Japanese Buddhism
鉴赏家	jian	jia	connoisseur; appreciative person; fan
鉴黄师	jian	shi	content moderator specializing in pornographic material (both online and offline)
针刺麻醉	zhen	zui	acupuncture anesthesia
针剂瓶	zhen	ping	ampoule
针叶林	zhen	lin	needle-leaved forest
针叶树	zhen	shu	conifer
针叶植物	zhen	wu	needle-leaved plant (e.g. pine tree)
针头线脑	zhen	nao	needle and thread; sewing implements; needlework
针孔摄像头	zhen	tou	miniature hidden camera; spy camera
针孔摄影机	zhen	ji	(Tw) miniature, concealable camera with a pinhole-sized lens; pinhole camera
针对性	zhen	xing	focus; direction; purpose
针尖儿对麦芒儿	zhen	r	see 針尖對麥芒|针尖对麦芒[zhen1 jian1 dui4 mai4 mang2]
针尖对麦芒	zhen	mang	sharply opposed to each other, with neither prepared to give an inch (idiom)
针尾沙锥	zhen	zhui	(bird species of China) pin-tailed snipe (Gallinago stenura)
针尾绿鸠	zhen	jiu	(bird species of China) pin-tailed green pigeon (Treron apicauda)
针尾鸭	zhen	ya	(bird species of China) northern pintail (Anas acuta)
针式打印机	zhen	ji	(computing) dot matrix printer
针箍儿	zhen	r	erhua variant of 針箍|针箍[zhen1 gu1]
针线活	zhen	huo	needlework; sewing
针线活儿	zhen	r	needlework; working for a living as a needleworker
针线活计	zhen	ji	needlework; sewing
针线箔篱	zhen	li	(dialect) wicker sewing basket
针织品	zhen	pin	knitwear
针锋相对	zhen	dui	to oppose each other with equal harshness (idiom); tit for tat; measure for measure
钉书机	ding	ji	variant of 訂書機|订书机[ding4 shu1 ji1]
钉书针	ding	zhen	variant of 訂書針|订书针[ding4 shu1 zhen1]
钉子户	ding	hu	householder who refuses to vacate his home despite pressure from property developers
钉是钉铆是铆	ding	mao	variant of 丁是丁，卯是卯[ding1 shi4 ding1 , mao3 shi4 mao3]
钌铞儿	liao	r	hasp
钓凯子	diao	zi	(slang) (of women) to hunt for rich, attractive guys
钓钩儿	diao	r	erhua form of 釣鉤|钓钩[diao4 gou1]
钓鱼台	diao	tai	Diaoyu Islands, located between Taiwan and Okinawa, controlled by Japan – which calls them the Senkaku Islands – but claimed by China
钓鱼岛	diao	dao	Diaoyu Islands, claimed by China but controlled by Japan as the Senkaku Islands, also called the Pinnacle Islands
钓鱼式攻击	diao	ji	(computing) phishing attack
钓鱼执法	diao	fa	(law) entrapment
钓鱼杆	diao	gan	variant of 釣魚竿|钓鱼竿[diao4 yu2 gan1]
钓鱼竿	diao	gan	fishing rod
钓鱼者	diao	zhe	angler
钛合金	tai	jin	titanium alloy
钛铁矿	tai	kuang	ilmenite FeTiO3; titanium ore
钝翅苇莺	dun	ying	(bird species of China) blunt-winged warbler (Acrocephalus concinens)
钞能力	chao	li	(coll.) wealth; financial clout (pun on 超能力[chao1 neng2 li4])
钟万学	zhong	xue	Basuki Tjahaja Purnama (1966-), Indonesian politician, governor of Jakarta (2014-)
钟乳石	zhong	shi	stalactite
钟山区	zhong	qu	Zhongshan, a district of Liupanshui City 六盤水市|六盘水市[Liu4 pan2 shui3 Shi4], Guizhou
钟山县	zhong	xian	Zhongshan, a county in Hezhou City 賀州市|贺州市[He4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
钟楚红	zhong	hong	Cherie Chung (1960–), Hong Kong actress
钟楼区	zhong	qu	Zhonglou, a district of Changzhou City 常州市[Chang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
钟楼怪人	zhong	ren	The Hunchback of Notre-Dame by Victor Hugo 維克多·雨果|维克多·雨果[Wei2 ke4 duo1 · Yu3 guo3]
钟灵毓秀	zhong	xiu	(of a place) endowed with a natural beauty that nurtures people of talent (idiom)
钟点工	zhong	gong	hourly worker; hourly job
钟点房	zhong	fang	hotel room rented at an hourly rate
钟睒睒	zhong	shan	Zhong Shanshan (1954-), Chinese billionaire businessman, the founder and chairperson of Nongfu Spring 農夫山泉|农夫山泉[Nong2 fu1 Shan1 quan2]
钟祥市	zhong	shi	Zhongxiang, a county-level city in Jingmen City 荊門市|荆门市[Jing1 men2 Shi4], Hubei
钟表盘	zhong	pan	clockface
钟鸣漏尽	zhong	jin	past one's prime; in one's declining years
钟鸣鼎食	zhong	shi	extravagant lifestyle
钟鼎文	zhong	wen	bell-cauldron script; the 籀文 form of Chinese character used in metal inscriptions
钢丝球	gang	qiu	stainless steel scourer
钢丝绳	gang	sheng	hawser; steel rope
钢丝钳	gang	qian	combination pliers; lineman's pliers
钢丝锯	gang	ju	jigsaw (saw with steel wire blade)
钢化玻璃	gang	li	reinforced glass
钢城区	gang	qu	Gangcheng, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
钢片琴	gang	qin	celesta
钢琴家	gang	jia	pianist
钢琴师	gang	shi	pianist
钢琴演奏	gang	zou	piano performance
钢筋水泥	gang	ni	reinforced concrete
钢筋混凝土	gang	tu	reinforced concrete
钢管舞	gang	wu	pole dancing
钢铁侠	gang	xia	Iron Man, comic book superhero
钢铁厂	gang	chang	iron and steel works; steelworks
钢铁学院	gang	yuan	Beijing Steel and Iron Institute (the former name of 北京科技大學|北京科技大学[Bei3 jing1 Ke1 ji4 Da4 xue2], University of Science and Technology Beijing)
钢铁工业	gang	ye	steel industry
钢铁直男	gang	nan	(slang) an extremely "straight" man: direct, literal-minded, practical and unromantic, and emotionally obtuse
钢骨水泥	gang	ni	reinforced concrete
钥匙卡	yao	ka	keycard
钥匙链	yao	lian	keychain
钦北区	qin	qu	Qinbei, a district of Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
钦南区	qin	qu	Qinnan, a district of Qinzhou City 欽州市|钦州市[Qin1 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
钦州市	qin	shi	Qinzhou, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
钩嘴圆尾鹱	gou	hu	(bird species of China) Tahiti petrel (Pseudobulweria rostrata)
钩嘴林鵙	gou	ju	(bird species of China) large woodshrike (Tephrodornis virgatus)
钩心斗角	gou	jiao	variant of 勾心鬥角|勾心斗角[gou1 xin1 dou4 jiao3]
钩端螺旋体病	gou	bing	leptospirosis
钮祜禄	niu	lu	Niohuru (prominent Manchu clan)
钱三强	qian	qiang	Qian Sanqiang
钱串儿	qian	r	erhua variant of 錢串|钱串[qian2 chuan4]
钱串子	qian	zi	string of copper coins (in ancient China); (fig.) an overly money-oriented person; (zoology) centipede
钱其琛	qian	chen	Qian Qichen (1928-2017), former Chinese vice premier
钱可通神	qian	shen	with money, you can do anything (idiom); money talks
钱塘区	qian	qu	Qiantang, a district of Hangzhou City 杭州市[Hang2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
钱塘江	qian	jiang	Qiantang River, the principal river of Zhejiang Province, eastern China, flowing through Hangzhou and into Hangzhou Bay, noted for its spectacular tidal bore 錢塘潮|钱塘潮[Qian2 tang2 chao2]
钱塘潮	qian	chao	tidal bore of the Qiantang River 錢塘江|钱塘江[Qian2 tang2 Jiang1] in Zhejiang
钱多事少离家近	qian	jin	lots of money, less work, and close to home; ideal job
钱学森	qian	sen	Qian Xuesen (1911-2009), Chinese scientist and aeronautical engineer
钱永健	qian	jian	Roger Yonchien Tsien (1952-), US Chinese chemist and 2008 Nobel laureate
钱能通神	qian	shen	money is all-powerful; money can move God
钱袋子	qian	zi	(coll.) purse; money bag; (fig.) one's money; one's savings
钱钟书	qian	shu	Qian Zhongshu (1910–1998), Chinese scholar and writer, author of the 1947 novel Fortress Beseiged 圍城|围城[Wei2 cheng2]
钳嘴鹳	qian	guan	(bird species of China) Asian openbill (Anastomus oscitans)
钳马衔枚	qian	mei	with horses and soldiers gagged (idiom); (of a marching army) in utter silence
钻井平台	zuan	tai	(oil) drilling platform
钻坚仰高	zuan	gao	lit. looking up to it, it gets higher; boring into it, it gets harder (idiom) (from Analects); fig. to delve deeply into one's studies; meticulous and diligent study
钻心虫	zuan	chong	boring insect; snout moth's larva (Aphomia gullaris or Plodia interpuncuella or Heliothus armigera etc), major agricultural pest
钻探机	zuan	ji	drilling machine
钻故纸堆	zuan	dui	to dig into piles of outdated writings (idiom); to study old books and papers
钻木取火	zuan	huo	to drill wood to make fire
钻桌子	zuan	zi	to crawl under a table (e.g. as a forfeit for losing a bet or card game); to hide under a table
钻牛角	zuan	jiao	lit. honing a bull's horn; fig. to waste time on an insoluble or insignificant problem; to bash one's head against a brick wall; a wild goose chase
钻牛角尖	zuan	jian	lit. to penetrate into a bull's horn (idiom); fig. to waste time on an insoluble or insignificant problem; to bash one's head against a brick wall; a wild goose chase
钻石婚	zuan	hun	diamond wedding
钻石王老五	zuan	wu	highly eligible bachelor; desirable male partner
钻空子	zuan	zi	to take advantage of a loophole; to exploit an advantage; to seize the opportunity (esp. to do sth bad)
铀浓缩	you	suo	uranium enrichment
铁东区	tie	qu	Tiedong, a district of Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin; Tiedong, a district of Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
铁丝网	tie	wang	wire netting; CL:道[dao4]
铁了心	tie	xin	determined; unshakable
铁人三项	tie	xiang	triathlon
铁公鸡	tie	ji	cheapskate; stingy person
铁兰属	tie	shu	(loanword) genus Tillandsia; air plants (more commonly known as 空氣鳳梨|空气凤梨[kong1 qi4 feng4 li2])
铁力市	tie	shi	Tieli, a county-level city in Yichun City 伊春市[Yi1 chun1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
铁力木	tie	mu	ironwood (Mesua ferrea)
铁哥们	tie	men	(coll.) very close male friends
铁哥们儿	tie	r	erhua variant of 鐵哥們|铁哥们[tie3 ge1 men5]
铁嘴沙鸻	tie	heng	(bird species of China) greater sand plover (Anarhynchus leschenaultii)
铁将军把门	tie	men	lit. General Iron is guarding the door (idiom); fig. the door is padlocked — nobody inside
铁尔梅兹	tie	zi	Termez city in southeast Uzbekistan
铁山区	tie	qu	Tieshan, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
铁山港	tie	gang	see 鐵山港區|铁山港区[Tie3 shan1 gang3 Qu1]
铁山港区	tie	qu	Tieshangang, a district of Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
铁岭县	tie	xian	Tieling, a county in Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
铁岭市	tie	shi	Tieling, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
铁帽子王	tie	wang	iron-cap prince in the Qing dynasty whose title can be passed on to subsequent generations without alteration
铁打的衙门流水的官	tie	guan	lit. the yamen is strong as iron, the officials flow like water (idiom); fig. government officials come and go
铁拐李	tie	li	see 李鐵拐|李铁拐[Li3 Tie3 guai3]
铁木真	tie	zhen	Temujin, birth name of Genghis Khan 成吉思汗[Cheng2 ji2 si1 han2]
铁杆粉丝	tie	si	die-hard fan
铁杵成针	tie	zhen	see 磨杵成針|磨杵成针[mo2 chu3 cheng2 zhen1]
铁板烧	tie	shao	teppanyaki
铁板牛柳	tie	liu	fillet beef served sizzling on a hot iron plate
铁板牛肉	tie	rou	beef grilled on a hot iron plate
铁板茄子	tie	zi	eggplant served sizzling on a hot iron plate
铁树开花	tie	hua	lit. the iron tree blooms (idiom); a highly improbable or extremely rare occurrence
铁格子	tie	zi	iron lattice; metal grid
铁氟龙	tie	long	(Tw) Teflon; polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)
铁爪鹀	tie	wu	(bird species of China) Lapland longspur (Calcarius lapponicus)
铁甲舰	tie	jian	ironclad; an armor-plated battleship
铁甲船	tie	chuan	armored ship
铁甲车	tie	che	armored car
铁石心肠	tie	chang	to have a heart of stone; hard-hearted; unfeeling
铁矿石	tie	shi	iron ore
铁票仓	tie	cang	see 鐵票區|铁票区[tie3 piao4 qu1]
铁票区	tie	qu	(Tw) safe seat (in an election); stronghold (for a political party or candidate); a district in which a majority of voters consistently votes for a particular party or candidate
铁窗生活	tie	huo	time served in prison; prison life
铁菱角	tie	jiao	see 鐵菱|铁菱[tie3 ling2]
铁蒺藜	tie	li	(military) caltrop
铁蛋子	tie	zi	see 鐵球|铁球[tie3 qiu2]
铁血宰相	tie	xiang	Iron Chancellor, refers to Otto von Bismarck (1815-1898), Prussian politician, minister-president of Prussia 1862-1873, Chancellor of Germany 1871-1890
铁西区	tie	qu	Tiexi, a district of Siping City 四平市[Si4 ping2 Shi4], Jilin; Tiexi, a district of Shenyang City 瀋陽市|沈阳市[Shen3 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning; Tiexi, a district of Anshan City 鞍山市[An1 shan1 Shi4], Liaoning
铁观音	tie	yin	Tieguanyin tea (a variety of oolong tea)
铁证如山	tie	shan	irrefutable evidence
铁路线	tie	xian	railway line
铁达尼号	tie	hao	RMS Titanic, British passenger liner that sank in 1912 (Tw); PRC equivalent: 泰坦尼克號|泰坦尼克号[Tai4 tan3 ni2 ke4 Hao4]
铁道部	tie	bu	Ministry of Railways (MOR), disbanded in 2013 with its regulatory functions taken over by the Ministry of Transport 交通運輸部|交通运输部[Jiao1 tong1 Yun4 shu1 bu4]
铁钩儿	tie	r	erhua variant of 鐵鈎|铁钩[tie3 gou1]
铁铝土	tie	tu	ferralsol (soil taxonomy)
铁锈带	tie	dai	Rust Belt
铁锋区	tie	qu	Tiefeng, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
铁镁质	tie	zhi	mafic rock (containing magnesium and iron, so comparatively heavy, making oceanic plates)
铁面无私	tie	si	strictly impartial and incorruptible (idiom)
铁饭碗	tie	wan	secure employment (lit. iron rice bowl)
铁骨铮铮	tie	zheng	(idiom) (of character) staunch; unyielding
铁齿铜牙	tie	ya	clever and eloquent speaker (idiom)
铅垂线	qian	xian	plumbline
铅山县	yan	xian	Yanshan, a county in Shangrao City 上饒市|上饶市[Shang4 rao2 Shi4], Jiangxi
铅笔刀	qian	dao	pencil sharpener; CL:把[ba3]
铅笔盒	qian	he	pencil case
铅管工	qian	gong	plumber
铅酸蓄电池	qian	chi	lead-acid accumulator; battery (e.g. in car)
铆劲儿	mao	r	to apply all one's strength in a burst of effort
铆起来	mao	lai	variant of 卯起來|卯起来[mao3 qi3 lai5]
铆足劲儿	mao	r	to exert all one's strength
铆钉枪	mao	qiang	rivet gun
铛铛车	dang	che	(coll.) tram, especially Beijing trams during period of operation 1924-1956; also written 噹噹車|当当车[dang1 dang1 che1]
铜仁市	tong	shi	Tongren, prefecture-level city in Guizhou Province 貴州省|贵州省[Gui4 zhou1 Sheng3]
铜墙铁壁	tong	bi	copper wall, iron bastion (idiom); impenetrable defense
铜官区	tong	qu	Tongguan, a district of Tongling City 銅陵市|铜陵市[Tong2 ling2 Shi4], Anhui
铜山区	tong	qu	Tongshan, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
铜川市	tong	shi	Tongchuan, prefecture-level city in Shaanxi Province 陝西省|陕西省[Shan3 xi1 Sheng3]
铜梁区	tong	qu	Tongliang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
铜管乐器	tong	qi	brass instruments
铜绿层	tong	ceng	patina
铜翅水雉	tong	zhi	(bird species of China) bronze-winged jacana (Metopidius indicus)
铜臭味	tong	wei	profit-before-all-else mindset; money-grubbing
铜蓝鹟	tong	weng	(bird species of China) verditer flycatcher (Eumyias thalassinus)
铜锈层	tong	ceng	patina
铜锣湾	tong	wan	Causeway Bay
铜锣烧	tong	shao	dorayaki (a Japanese confection)
铜锤花脸	tong	lian	(Chinese opera) tongchui hualian, a military character holding a bronze mace, classified as a jing 淨|净[jing4] role
铜陵市	tong	shi	Tongling, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
铜鼓县	tong	xian	Tonggu, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
铝合金	lv	jin	aluminum alloy
铝土矿	lv	kuang	bauxite
铝矾土	lv	tu	bauxite; aluminum ore
铝箔纸	lv	zhi	aluminum foil
铤而走险	ting	xian	(idiom) to take a risk out of desperation
铨叙部	quan	bu	Ministry of Civil Service, Taiwan
铩羽而归	sha	gui	(idiom) to return in low spirits following a defeat or failure to achieve one's ambitions
铭心刻骨	ming	gu	lit. etched into one's heart and bones (idiom); fig. etched in one's memory; remembered with gratitude as long as one lives
铭心镂骨	ming	gu	engraved in one's heart and carved in one's bones (idiom); to remember a benefactor as long as one lives; undying gratitude
铮铮铁汉	zheng	han	a strong and determined man (idiom)
铮铮铁骨	zheng	gu	see 鐵骨錚錚|铁骨铮铮[tie3 gu3 zheng1 zheng1]
铲土机	chan	ji	bulldozer; wheel loader
铲屎官	chan	guan	(neologism) (coll.) pet owner (lit. "official in charge of cleaning up poop")
铲运机	chan	ji	carry-scraper
铲运车	chan	che	front loader (vehicle)
铲雪车	chan	che	snowplow
银丝卷	yin	juan	yin si juan, steamed bun from Shandong province with hand-drawn dough threads folded over
银发族	yin	zu	the elderly
银喉长尾山雀	yin	que	(bird species of China) silver-throated bushtit (Aegithalos glaucogularis)
银屑病	yin	bing	psoriasis
银川市	yin	shi	Yinchuan, prefecture-level city and capital of Ningxia Hui Autonomous Region 寧夏回族自治區|宁夏回族自治区[Ning2 xia4 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
银州区	yin	qu	Yinzhou, a district of Tieling City 鐵嶺市|铁岭市[Tie3 ling3 Shi4], Liaoning
银手镯	yin	zhuo	(fig.) handcuffs
银晃晃	yin	huang	silver glitter
银本位	yin	wei	silver standard (monetary system)
银本位制	yin	zhi	silver standard (monetary system)
银样镴枪头	yin	tou	silvery spear point actually made of pewter (idiom); fig. worthless despite an attractive exterior
银河星云	yin	yun	a galactic nebula
银河系	yin	xi	Milky Way Galaxy; the galaxy (our galaxy)
银海区	yin	qu	Yinhai, a district of Beihai City 北海市[Bei3 hai3 Shi4], Guangxi
银渐层	yin	ceng	silver British shorthair (cat)
银熊奖	yin	jiang	Silver Bear, award at the Berlin International Film Festival
银狮奖	yin	jiang	Silver Lion, award at the Venice Film Festival
银白杨	yin	yang	silver birch; white poplar
银监会	yin	hui	China Banking Regulatory Commission (CBRC), abbr. for 中國銀行業監督管理委員會|中国银行业监督管理委员会[Zhong1 guo2 Yin2 hang2 ye4 Jian1 du1 Guan3 li3 Wei3 yuan2 hui4]
银耳噪鹛	yin	mei	(bird species of China) silver-eared laughingthrush (Trochalopteron melanostigma)
银耳相思鸟	yin	niao	(bird species of China) silver-eared mesia (Leiothrix argentauris)
银胶菊	yin	ju	guayule (Parthenium argentatum); congress weed (Parthenium hysterophorus)
银胸阔嘴鸟	yin	niao	(bird species of China) silver-breasted broadbill (Serilophus lunatus)
银脸长尾山雀	yin	que	(bird species of China) sooty bushtit (Aegithalos fuliginosus)
银莲花	yin	hua	anemone
银行业	yin	ye	banking
银行卡	yin	ka	bank card
银行家	yin	jia	banker
银行对账单	yin	dan	bank statement
银质奖	yin	jiang	silver medal
银阁寺	yin	si	Ginkaku-ji or Silver Pavilion in Kyoto 京都[Jing1 du1], Japan, officially called Jishōji 慈照寺[Ci2 zhao4 si4]
铸剑为犁	zhu	li	(idiom) to beat swords into plowshares; to turn from war to peace
铸工车间	zhu	jian	foundry (workshop or factory)
铸成大错	zhu	cuo	to make a serious mistake (idiom)
铺天盖地	pu	di	(lit.) eclipsing the sky and blanketing the earth (idiom); (fig.) arriving in overwhelming quantities; engulfing; all-pervasive
铺张浪费	pu	fei	extravagance and waste (idiom)
铺盖卷儿	pu	r	bedroll
铺面房	pu	fang	store; front room of house serving as shop
链式反应	lian	ying	chain reaction
链式裂变反应	lian	ying	chain reaction of nuclear fission
链球菌	lian	jun	streptococcus (genus of bacteria)
链路层	lian	ceng	link layer
销售时点	xiao	dian	point of sale
销售时点情报系统	xiao	tong	point of sale system
销售点	xiao	dian	point of sale (POS); checkout; retail outlet
销售额	xiao	e	sales figure; total income from sales; turnover
销声匿迹	xiao	ji	to vanish without trace (idiom); to lie low
销货帐	xiao	zhang	sales ledger (accountancy)
销金窟	xiao	ku	money squandering establishment (e.g. gambling den, brothel etc)
锁存器	suo	qi	latch (electronic)
锂电池	li	chi	lithium battery
锂离子电池	li	chi	lithium ion battery
锄强扶弱	chu	ruo	to root out the strong and support the weak (idiom); to rob the rich and give to the poor
锅烧意面	guo	mian	nabeyaki egg noodles
锅盖头	guo	tou	bowl cut (hairstyle)
锅碗瓢盆	guo	pen	kitchen utensils (literary)
锅驼机	guo	ji	portable steam engine
锆合金	gao	jin	zircaloy
锆英砂	gao	sha	zircon sand (zirconium ore)
锈红腹旋木雀	xiu	que	(bird species of China) rusty-flanked treecreeper (Certhia nipalensis)
锈胸蓝姬鹟	xiu	weng	(bird species of China) slaty-backed flycatcher (Ficedula erithacus)
锈脸钩嘴鹛	xiu	mei	(bird species of China) rusty-cheeked scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys erythrogenys)
锈腹短翅鸫	xiu	dong	(bird species of China) rusty-bellied shortwing (Brachypteryx hyperythra)
锈额斑翅鹛	xiu	mei	(bird species of China) rusty-fronted barwing (Actinodura egertoni)
锋芒内敛	feng	lian	to be talented yet self-effacing (idiom)
锋芒毕露	feng	lu	to show off one's ability
锐不可当	rui	dang	unstoppable; hard to hold back
锒铛入狱	lang	yu	lit. to get shackled and thrown in jail (idiom); fig. to be put behind bars; to get jailed
锕系元素	a	su	actinoids (rare earth series), namely: actinium Ac89 錒|锕[a1], thorium Th90 釷|钍[tu3], protoactinium Pa91 鏷|镤[pu2], uranium U92 鈾|铀[you2], neptunium Ne93 鎿|镎[na2], plutonium Pu94 鈈|钚[bu4], americium Am95 鎇|镅[mei2], curium Cm96 鋦|锔[ju2], berkelium Bk97 錇|锫[pei2], californium Cf98 鐦|锎[kai1], einsteinium Es99 鎄|锿[ai1], fermium Fm100 鐨|镄[fei4], mendelevium Md101 鍆|钔[men2], nobelium No102 鍩|锘[nuo4], lawrencium Lr103 鐒|铹[lao2]
错义突变	cuo	bian	missense mutation
错别字	cuo	zi	Chinese character error (collective term for 錯字|错字[cuo4 zi4] and 別字|别字[bie2 zi4])
错综复杂	cuo	za	tangled and complicated (idiom)
错落不齐	cuo	qi	disorderly and uneven (idiom); irregular and disorderly
错落有致	cuo	zhi	in picturesque disorder (idiom); irregular arrangement with charming effect
错觉结合	cuo	he	illusory conjunction
错那市	cuo	shi	Tsona, a county-level city in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
锚链孔	mao	kong	hawsehole (small hole for anchor cable or hawser in the side of ship)
锡伯族	xi	zu	Xibe ethnic group
锡克教	xi	jiao	Sikhism
锡嘴雀	xi	que	(bird species of China) hawfinch (Coccothraustes coccothraustes)
锡安山	xi	shan	Mount Zion
锡尔河	xi	he	Syr Darya, Central Asian river, flowing from Kyrgiz Republic through Kazakhstan to the Aral sea
锡山区	xi	qu	Xishan, a district of Wuxi City 無錫市|无锡市[Wu2 xi1 Shi4], Jiangsu
锡当河	xi	he	Sittang River of central Myanmar (Burma), between Irrawaddy and Salween rivers
锡拉库萨	xi	sa	Syracuse, Sicily
锡林浩特	xi	te	see 錫林浩特市|锡林浩特市[Xi1 lin2 hao4 te4 Shi4]
锡林浩特市	xi	shi	Xilinhot, a county-level city in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
锡林郭勒	xi	le	see 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2]
锡林郭勒盟	xi	meng	Xilingol, league in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
锡箔纸	xi	zhi	aluminum foil; CL:張|张[zhang1]
锡霍特	xi	te	Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russian far east opposite Sakhalin Island
锡霍特山脉	xi	mai	Sichote-Alin mountain range in Russian far east opposite Sakhalin Island
锢囚锋	gu	feng	occluded front (meteorology)
锢漏锅	gu	guo	tinker; artisan who fixes leaky pots
锣鼓点	luo	dian	Chinese percussion fixed pattern; percussion rhythm
锣齐鼓不齐	luo	qi	(idiom) not well coordinated
锤头鲨	chui	sha	a hammerhead shark
锤骨柄	chui	bing	manubrium of malleus (handle of hammer bone), connecting ossicles 聽小骨|听小骨 to tympanum 鼓膜
锥子脸	zhui	lian	V-shaped face
锥形瓶	zhui	ping	Erlenmeyer flask
锥虫病	zhui	bing	trypanosomiasis
锥齿轮	zhui	lun	pinion gear
锦上添花	jin	hua	(lit.) to add flowers to brocade (idiom); (fig.) to make sth good even better; to add an extra (often nonessential) benefit or embellishment
锦囊妙计	jin	ji	brocade sack of miracle plans (idiom); bag of tricks; fiendishly cunning masterplan (written out by strategic genius of fiction, and given to the local commander in a brocade bag)
锦屏县	jin	xian	Jinping, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
锦州市	jin	shi	Jinzhou, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
锦心绣口	jin	kou	(of writing) elegant and ornate
锦标赛	jin	sai	championship contest; championships
锦江区	jin	qu	Jinjiang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
锦绣前程	jin	cheng	bright future; bright prospects
锦衣卫	jin	wei	Brocade Uniform Guard, imperial bodyguard and secret police force of the Ming emperors
锦衣玉食	jin	shi	brocade garments, jade meals (idiom); a life of luxury; extravagance
键盘乐器	jian	qi	keyboard instrument (piano, organ etc)
键盘侠	jian	xia	keyboard warrior
锯木厂	ju	chang	sawmill; lumber mill
锯木架	ju	jia	a sawhorse
锯棕榈	ju	lv	saw palmetto (Serenoa repens, a small palm, an extract of whose fruit is used medicinally)
锯齿形	ju	xing	sawtooth shape; zigzag
锰结核	meng	he	manganese nodule
锱铢必较	zi	jiao	to haggle over every cent (idiom)
锲而不舍	qie	she	to chip away at a task and not abandon it (idiom); to chisel away at sth; to persevere; unflagging efforts
锹形虫	qiao	chong	stag beetle (generic term for the beetles in the family of lucanidae)
镁光灯	mei	deng	magnesium flashbulb; (fig.) media spotlight; public attention
镇压反革命运动	zhen	dong	Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries (PRC political campaign from 1950-1952), abbr. to 鎮反運動|镇反运动[Zhen4 fan3 Yun4 dong4]
镇原县	zhen	xian	Zhenyuan, a county in Qingyang City 慶陽市|庆阳市[Qing4 yang2 Shi4], Gansu
镇反运动	zhen	dong	Campaign to Suppress Counterrevolutionaries (PRC political campaign from 1950-1952), abbr. for 鎮壓反革命運動|镇压反革命运动[Zhen4 ya1 Fan3 ge2 ming4 Yun4 dong4]
镇坪县	zhen	xian	Zhenping, a county in Ankang City 安康市[An1 kang1 Shi4], Shaanxi
镇宁县	zhen	xian	see 鎮寧布依族苗族自治縣|镇宁布依族苗族自治县[Zhen4 ning2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
镇安县	zhen	xian	Zhen'an, a county in Shangluo City 商洛市[Shang1 luo4 Shi4], Shaanxi
镇定剂	zhen	ji	tranquilizer; depressant; sedative
镇定药	zhen	yao	sedative drug
镇巴县	zhen	xian	Zhenba, a county in Hanzhong City 漢中市|汉中市[Han4 zhong1 Shi4], Shaanxi
镇平县	zhen	xian	Zhenping, a county in Nanyang City 南陽市|南阳市[Nan2 yang2 Shi4], Henan
镇康县	zhen	xian	Zhenkang, a county in Lincang City 臨滄市|临沧市[Lin2 cang1 Shi4], Yunnan
镇得住	zhen	zhu	to manage to suppress; to keep under control
镇江市	zhen	shi	Zhenjiang, prefecture-level city in Jiangsu Province 江蘇省|江苏省[Jiang1 su1 Sheng3]
镇沅县	zhen	xian	see 鎮沅彝族哈尼族拉祜族自治縣|镇沅彝族哈尼族拉祜族自治县[Zhen4 yuan2 Yi2 zu2 Ha1 ni2 zu2 La1 hu4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
镇流器	zhen	qi	electrical ballast
镇海区	zhen	qu	Zhenhai, a district of Ningbo City 寧波市|宁波市[Ning2 bo1 Shi4], Zhejiang
镇痉剂	zhen	ji	antispasmodic (pharmacology)
镇痛剂	zhen	ji	painkiller; analgesic; anodyne
镇痛药	zhen	yao	analgesic
镇赉县	zhen	xian	Zhenlai, a county in Baicheng City 白城市[Bai2 cheng2 Shi4], Jilin
镇远县	zhen	xian	Zhenyuan, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
镇雄县	zhen	xian	Zhenxiong, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
镇静剂	zhen	ji	tranquilizer
镇静药	zhen	yao	sedative
镌心铭骨	juan	gu	etched in one's bones and heart (idiom); ever-present memory (esp. resentment)
镌骨铭心	juan	xin	etched in one's bones and heart (idiom); ever-present memory (esp. resentment)
镏银器	liu	qi	gilded silverware; CL:件[jian4]
镜像站点	jing	dian	(computing) mirror site
镜头语言	jing	yan	cinematic language (the visual grammar and techniques of filmmaking)
镜框舞台	jing	tai	theatrical set
镜湖区	jing	qu	Jinghu, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
镜花水月	jing	yue	lit. flowers in a mirror and the moon reflected in the lake (idiom); fig. an unrealistic rosy view; viewing things through rose-tinted spectacles
镜花缘	jing	yuan	Jinghua Yuan or Flowers in the Mirror, Qing novel of fantasy and erudition (early 19th century) by Li Ruzhen 李汝珍[Li3 Ru3 zhen1]
镧系元素	lan	su	lanthanoid (rare earth series), namely: lanthanum La57 鑭|镧[lan2], cerium Ce58 鈰|铈[shi4], praseodymium Pr59 鐠|镨[pu3], neodymium Nd60 釹|钕[nu:3], promethium Pm61 鉕|钷[po3], samarium Sm62 釤|钐[shan1], europium Eu63 銪|铕[you3], gadolinium Gd64 釓|钆[ga2], terbium Tb65 鋱|铽[te4], dysprosium Dy66 鏑|镝[di1], holmium Ho67 鈥|钬[huo3], erbium Er68 鉺|铒[er3], thulium Tm69 銩|铥[diu1], ytterbium Yb70 鐿|镱[yi4], lutetium Lu71 鑥|镥[lu3]
镭射印表机	lei	ji	laser printer
镰仓幕府	lian	fu	Kamakura shogunate 1192-1333
镰刀斧头	lian	tou	the hammer and sickle (flag of USSR, symbolizing rural and proletarian labor)
镰刀细胞贫血	lian	xue	sickle cell anemia
镰状红血球贫血症	lian	zheng	sickle-cell anemia
镰状细胞血症	lian	zheng	sickle cell anemia
镰翅鸡	lian	ji	(bird species of China) Siberian grouse (Falcipennis falcipennis)
镶黄旗	xiang	qi	Bordered Yellow banner or Hövööt Shar khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
长三角	chang	jiao	Yangtze River Delta (abbr. for 長江三角洲|长江三角洲[Chang2 jiang1 San1 jiao3 zhou1])
长三角经济区	chang	qu	Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone (economic region including Shanghai, Zhejiang and Jiangsu)
长丰县	chang	xian	Changfeng, a county in Hefei City 合肥市[He2 fei2 Shi4], Anhui
长久以来	chang	lai	for a long time now; long since
长乐公主	chang	zhu	Princess Changle of Western Wei of the Northern dynasties 西魏[Xi1 Wei4], given in marriage c. 545 to Bumin Khan 土門|土门[Tu3 men2]
长乐区	chang	qu	Changle, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
长乐未央	chang	yang	endless happiness (idiom)
长兴县	chang	xian	Changxing, a county in Huzhou City 湖州市[Hu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
长印鱼	chang	yu	shark sucker (Echeneis naucrates)
长吁短叹	chang	tan	long moan and short gasp (idiom); continually moaning and groaning in pain
长命富贵	chang	gui	We wish you long life and riches! (idiom, conventional greeting)
长命百岁	chang	sui	(idiom) to live to be a hundred years old (often used as a blessing or wish for longevity)
长嘴剑鸻	chang	heng	(bird species of China) long-billed plover (Charadrius placidus)
长嘴地鸫	chang	dong	(bird species of China) dark-sided thrush (Zoothera marginata)
长嘴捕蛛鸟	chang	niao	(bird species of China) little spiderhunter (Arachnothera longirostra)
长嘴斑海雀	chang	que	(bird species of China) long-billed murrelet (Brachyramphus perdix)
长嘴百灵	chang	ling	(bird species of China) Tibetan lark (Melanocorypha maxima)
长嘴钩嘴鹛	chang	mei	(bird species of China) large scimitar babbler (Erythrogenys hypoleucos)
长嘴鹩鹛	chang	mei	(bird species of China) long-billed wren-babbler (Napothera malacoptila)
长嘴鹬	chang	yu	(bird species of China) long-billed dowitcher (Limnodromus scolopaceus)
长坂坡七进七出	chang	chu	famous scene in Romance of the Three Kingdoms in which Zhao Yun 趙雲|赵云 charges seven times through the ranks of Cao Cao's armies
长垣市	chang	shi	Changyuan, a county-level city in Xinxiang City 新鄉市|新乡市[Xin1 xiang1 Shi4], Henan
长城饭店	chang	dian	Great Wall Hotel (Beijing Sheraton 喜來登|喜来登)
长夜漫漫	chang	man	endless night (idiom); fig. long suffering
长夜难明	chang	ming	lit. many nights under a harsh moon; long years of oppression (idiom)
长子县	zhang	xian	Zhangzi, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
长孙无忌	zhang	ji	Zhangsun Wuji (c. 594-659), politician and historian of early Tang
长宁区	chang	qu	Changning district, central Shanghai
长宁县	chang	xian	Changning, a county in Yibin City 宜賓市|宜宾市[Yi2 bin1 Shi4], Sichuan
长安区	chang	qu	Chang'an, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi; Chang'an, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
长安大学	chang	xue	Chang'an University
长寿区	chang	qu	Changshou, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
长尾地鸫	chang	dong	(bird species of China) long-tailed thrush (Zoothera dixoni)
长尾夜鹰	chang	ying	(bird species of China) large-tailed nightjar (Caprimulgus macrurus)
长尾奇鹛	chang	mei	(bird species of China) long-tailed sibia (Heterophasia picaoides)
长尾山椒鸟	chang	niao	(bird species of China) long-tailed minivet (Pericrocotus ethologus)
长尾朱雀	chang	que	(bird species of China) long-tailed rosefinch (Carpodacus sibiricus)
长尾林鸮	chang	xiao	(bird species of China) Ural owl (Strix uralensis)
长尾缝叶莺	chang	ying	(bird species of China) common tailorbird (Orthotomus sutorius)
长尾贼鸥	chang	ou	(bird species of China) long-tailed jaeger (Stercorarius longicaudus)
长尾阔嘴鸟	chang	niao	(bird species of China) long-tailed broadbill (Psarisomus dalhousiae)
长尾鸭	chang	ya	(bird species of China) long-tailed duck (Clangula hyemalis)
长尾鹦鹉	chang	wu	(bird species of China) long-tailed parakeet (Psittacula longicauda)
长尾鹩鹛	chang	mei	(bird species of China) grey-bellied wren-babbler (Spelaeornis reptatus)
长山山脉	chang	mai	Annamite Range, aka Annamese Cordillera, mountain range forming the border between Vietnam and Laos
长岛冰茶	chang	cha	Long Island Iced Tea
长岭县	chang	xian	Changling, a county in Songyuan City 松原市[Song1 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
长平之战	chang	zhan	Battle of Changping of 260 BC, at which the Qin army 秦軍|秦军[Qin2 jun1] encircled and annihilated a Zhao army of 400,000
长年累月	chang	yue	year in, year out (idiom); (over) many years
长度单位	chang	wei	unit of length
长掌义县龙	chang	long	Yixianosaurus longimanus, theropod dinosaur from Yi county 義縣|义县, Jinzhou 錦州|锦州, west Liaoning
长新冠	chang	guan	long COVID
长方体	chang	ti	cuboid
长方形	chang	xing	rectangle
长明灯	chang	deng	altar lamp burning day and night
长春市	chang	shi	Changchun, sub-provincial city and capital of Jilin Province 吉林省[Ji2 lin2 Sheng3]
长期以来	chang	lai	for a long time
长期共存	chang	cun	long-term coexistence
长期性	chang	xing	long-term
长期饭票	chang	piao	(fig.) guarantee of financial support for the rest of one's life
长枪短炮	chang	pao	camera (jocular)
长柄镰刀	chang	dao	scythe
长武县	chang	xian	Changwu, a county in Xianyang City 咸陽市|咸阳市[Xian2 yang2 Shi4], Shaanxi
长毛绒	chang	rong	(textiles) plush
长毛象	chang	xiang	woolly mammoth
长汀县	chang	xian	Changting, a county in Longyan City 龍巖市|龙岩市[Long2 yan2 Shi4], Fujian
长江三峡	chang	xia	Three Gorges or Yangtze Gorges, namely: Qutang Gorge 瞿塘峽|瞿塘峡[Qu2 tang2 Xia2], Wuxia Gorge 巫峽|巫峡[Wu1 Xia2] and Xiling Gorge 西陵峽|西陵峡[Xi1 ling2 Xia2]
长江三角洲	chang	zhou	Yangtze River Delta
长江三角洲经济区	chang	qu	Yangtze River Delta Economic Zone (economic region including Shanghai, Zhejiang and Jiangsu)
长江后浪催前浪	chang	lang	see 長江後浪推前浪|长江后浪推前浪[Chang2 Jiang1 hou4 lang4 tui1 qian2 lang4]
长江后浪推前浪	chang	lang	lit. the rear waves of the Yangtze River drive on those before (idiom); fig. the new is constantly replacing the old; each new generation excels the previous
长江流域	chang	yu	Changjiang or Yangtze river basin
长江经济带	chang	dai	Yangtze River Economic Belt
长沙县	chang	xian	Changsha, a county in Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
长沙市	chang	shi	Changsha, prefecture-level city and capital of Hunan Province 湖南省[Hu2 nan2 Sheng3]
长沙湾	chang	wan	Cheung Sha Wan (poultry market in Hong Kong)
长治久安	chang	an	long-term peace and stability (of governments)
长治市	chang	shi	Changzhi, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
长泰区	chang	qu	Changtai, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
长洲区	chang	qu	Changzhou, a district of Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
长流水不断线	chang	xian	continuous and patient effort (idiom)
长海县	chang	xian	Changhai, a county in Dalian City 大連市|大连市[Da4 lian2 Shi4], Liaoning
长清区	chang	qu	Changqing, a district of Jinan City 濟南市|济南市[Ji3 nan2 Shi4], Shandong
长点心眼	zhang	yan	to watch out; to keep one's wits about one
长生不死	chang	si	immortality
长生不老	chang	lao	(idiom) to live forever and never grow old
长生久视	chang	shi	(idiom) to live forever and never grow old
长生果	chang	guo	(dialect) peanut
长生禄位	chang	wei	tablet in honor of a person who is still alive (or was alive when the tablet was created)
长痛不如短痛	chang	tong	better to just get the pain over with, rather than prolong the agony
长白县	chang	xian	see 長白朝鮮族自治縣|长白朝鲜族自治县[Chang2 bai2 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
长白山	chang	shan	Changbai or Baekdu mountains 白頭山|白头山, volcanic mountain range between Jilin province and North Korea, prominent in Manchu and Korean mythology
长白山天池	chang	chi	Changbaishan Tianchi, volcanic crater lake on the border between China and North Korea
长白朝鲜族自治县	chang	xian	Changbai Korean Autonomous County, in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
长相厮守	chang	shou	(of a couple) to stay together for life
长相思	chang	si	Sauvignon blanc (grape type)
长知识	zhang	shi	to acquire knowledge
长筒袜	chang	wa	stockings; thigh-highs; CL:雙|双[shuang1]
长筒靴	chang	xue	tall boots
长篇小说	chang	shuo	novel; full-length novel
长篇累牍	chang	du	(of a text) very lengthy (idiom)
长统袜	chang	wa	stockings
长统靴	chang	xue	variant of 長筒靴|长筒靴[chang2 tong3 xue1]
长老会	zhang	hui	Presbyterianism
长耳鸮	chang	xiao	(bird species of China) long-eared owl (Asio otus)
长脚秧鸡	chang	ji	(bird species of China) corn crake (Crex crex)
长臂猿	chang	yuan	gibbon; Hylobatidae (gibbon and lesser ape family)
长舌妇	chang	fu	female gossip; busybody
长草区	chang	qu	the rough (golf)
长荣海运	chang	yun	Evergreen Marine Corp. (Taiwan shipping line)
长荣航空	chang	kong	EVA Air, Taiwanese international airline
长葛市	chang	shi	Changge, a county-level city in Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
长蛇座	chang	zuo	Hydra (constellation)
长蛇阵	chang	zhen	single-line formation (army); fig. long line
长袖善舞	chang	wu	long sleeves help one dance beautifully (idiom); money and power will help you in any occupation
长见识	zhang	shi	to gain knowledge and experience
长角羊	chang	yang	Tibetan long horned antelope
长记性	zhang	xing	(coll.) to learn one's lesson; to have enough sense to learn from one's mistakes
长话短说	chang	shuo	(idiom) to make a long story short; to keep it brief
长谷川	chang	chuan	Hasegawa (Japanese surname)
长赘疣	zhang	you	to vegetate
长足进步	chang	bu	rapid progress
长趾滨鹬	chang	yu	(bird species of China) long-toed stint (Calidris subminuta)
长跑运动员	chang	yuan	long-distance runner
长距离	chang	li	long-distance
长辈图	zhang	tu	(Internet slang) boomer meme (Tw)
长辔远驭	chang	yu	to control from a distance (idiom)
长途汽车	chang	che	long-distance coach
长途电话	chang	hua	long-distance phone call
长途话费	chang	fei	(telephony) long-distance call charge
长途跋涉	chang	she	long and difficult trek
长途车	chang	che	long-distance bus
长阳县	chang	xian	see 長陽土家族自治縣|长阳土家族自治县[Chang2 yang2 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
长阳土家族自治县	chang	xian	Changyang Tujia Autonomous County, in Yichang City 宜昌市[Yi2 chang1 Shi4], Hubei
长顺县	chang	xian	Changshun, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
长颈瓶	chang	ping	flask
长颈鹿	chang	lu	giraffe; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
长颈龙	chang	long	tanystropheus, long-necked reptile from Triassic
长风破浪	chang	lang	lit. to ride the wind and crest the waves; to be ambitious and unafraid (idiom)
长驱直入	chang	ru	to march straight in unchallenged (military) (idiom); (fig.) to push deep into the heart of sth; to flood in
长鼻猴	chang	hou	proboscis monkey (Nasalis larvatus), aka long-nosed monkey
长鼻目	chang	mu	order Proboscidea (elephants and mammoths)
门兴格拉德巴赫	men	he	Mönchengladbach (city in Germany)
门到门	men	men	door to door
门可罗雀	men	que	(lit.) you can net sparrows at the door (idiom); (fig.) completely deserted
门坎儿	men	r	erhua variant of 門坎|门坎[men2 kan3]
门外汉	men	han	layman
门头沟	men	gou	see 門頭溝區|门头沟区[Men2 tou2 gou1 Qu1]
门头沟区	men	qu	Mentougou, a district of Beijing
门巴族	men	zu	Monba ethnic group
门市部	men	bu	retail department; section of a retail store
门庭如市	men	shi	see 門庭若市|门庭若市[men2 ting2 ruo4 shi4]
门庭若市	men	shi	front yard as busy as a marketplace (idiom); a place with many visitors
门当户对	men	dui	the families are well-matched in terms of social status (idiom); (of a prospective marriage partner) an appropriate match
门户之见	men	jian	sectarian bias; parochialism
门户开放	men	fang	open door policy; Egyptian President Sadat's infitah policy towards investment and relations with Israel
门户网站	men	zhan	web portal
门把手	men	shou	door knob; door handle
门捷列夫	men	fu	Dmitri Ivanovich Mendeleev (1834-1907), Russian chemist who introduced the periodic table
门源县	men	xian	see 門源回族自治縣|门源回族自治县[Men2 yuan2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
门源回族自治县	men	xian	Menyuan Hui Autonomous County, in Haibei Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 海北藏族自治州[Hai3 bei3 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Qinghai
门禁卡	men	ka	keycard; electronic entrance card
门罗主义	men	yi	Monroe Doctrine
门诊室	men	shi	clinic; outpatient department (or consulting room)
门诊部	men	bu	outpatient department
闪亮儿	shan	r	erhua variant of 閃亮|闪亮[shan3 liang4]
闪光弹	shan	dan	flashbang; stun grenade
闪光灯	shan	deng	flash bulb (photography)
闪光点	shan	dian	lit. flash point; crucial point; essential point
闪光胶	shan	jiao	glitter glue
闪击战	shan	zhan	lightning war; Blitzkrieg
闪含语系	shan	xi	Hamito-Semitic family of languages (incl. Arabic, Aramaic, Hebrew etc)
闪存盘	shan	pan	USB flash drive; thumb drive
闪烁体	shan	ti	(physics) scintillator
闪烁其词	shan	ci	to speak evasively (idiom); beating about the bush
闪电战	shan	zhan	blitzkrieg; blitz
闪电结婚	shan	hun	to get married soon after meeting
闪米特	shan	te	Semitic
闪转腾挪	shan	nuo	to move nimbly about, dodging and weaving (martial arts)
闭上嘴巴	bi	ba	Shut up!
闭会祈祷	bi	dao	benediction
闭元音	bi	yin	close vowel
闭关政策	bi	ce	closed-door policy
闭关自守	bi	shou	close the country to international intercourse
闭关锁国	bi	guo	to close the passes and seal off the country; to close a country to exclude foreign contact
闭区间	bi	jian	closed interval (in calculus)
闭卷考试	bi	shi	closed-book examination
闭口不言	bi	yan	to keep silent (idiom)
闭口不谈	bi	tan	to refuse to say anything about (idiom); to remain tight-lipped; to avoid mentioning
闭塞眼睛捉麻雀	bi	que	lit. to catch sparrows blindfolded (idiom); fig. to act blindly
闭壳肌	bi	ji	adductor muscle (of a bivalve mollusk)
闭子集	bi	ji	closed subset (math.)
闭幕式	bi	shi	closing ceremony
闭幕词	bi	ci	closing speech (at the conclusion of a conference, sports tournament etc)
闭月羞花	bi	hua	lit. hiding the moon, shaming the flowers (idiom); fig. female beauty exceeding even that of the natural world
闭目养神	bi	shen	to relax with one's eyes closed
闭目塞听	bi	ting	to shut one's eyes and stop one's ears; out of touch with reality; to bury one's head in the sand
闭路电视	bi	shi	closed-circuit television
闭锁期	bi	qi	lock-up period (on stock options)
闭门不出	bi	chu	(idiom) to stay shut up at home; to not go out
闭门会议	bi	yi	closed-door meeting
闭门塞窦	bi	dou	to close doors and block openings (idiom); mounting a strict defense
闭门思过	bi	guo	shut oneself up and ponder over one's mistakes
闭门羹	bi	geng	(fig.) denial of entry; flat refusal; cold rebuff
闭门觅句	bi	ju	lit. lock the door and search for the right word (idiom); fig. the serious hard work of writing
闭门造车	bi	che	lit. to shut oneself away and build a cart (idiom); fig. to work on a project in isolation, without caring for outside realities
闭音节	bi	jie	closed syllable
问客杀鸡	wen	ji	lit. asking guests whether or not to butcher a chicken for them (idiom); fig. hypocritical show of affection (or hospitality)
问寒问暖	wen	nuan	(idiom) to show concern about sb's well-being
问心无愧	wen	kui	lit. look into one's heart, no shame (idiom); with a clear conscience
问心有愧	wen	kui	to have a guilty conscience
问罪之师	wen	shi	punitive force; a person setting out to deliver severe reproach
问责性	wen	xing	accountability
问道于盲	wen	mang	lit. to ask a blind man the way (idiom); fig. to seek advice from an incompetent
问鼎中原	wen	yuan	to plan to seize power of the whole country (idiom)
问鼎轻重	wen	zhong	lit. to inquire whether the tripods are light or heavy (idiom); a laughable attempt to seize power
闯关者	chuang	zhe	person who crashes through a barrier; gate-crasher
闯出名堂	chuang	tang	to make a name for oneself
闯王陵	chuang	ling	mausoleum to the late-Ming peasant rebel leader Li Zicheng 李自成[Li3 Ze4 cheng2], nicknamed Dashing King 闖王|闯王[Chuang3 Wang2]
闯空门	chuang	men	to break into a home when no one is there (to steal)
闯红灯	chuang	deng	to run a red light; failing to stop at a red traffic light; (slang) to have sex with a girl while she is menstruating
闯荡江湖	chuang	hu	to travel around the country
闰四月吃树叶	run	ye	an intercalary fourth month brings food shortages
闲云野鹤	xian	he	(idiom) free spirit; person who leads a carefree, unfettered life
闲情逸致	xian	zhi	leisurely and carefree mood
闲来无事	xian	shi	at leisure; idle; to have nothing to do
闲聊天	xian	tian	to chat; idle gossip
闲言碎语	xian	yu	idle gossip; irrelevant nonsense; slanderous rumor
闲言闲语	xian	yu	idle gossip
闲话家常	xian	chang	to chat about domestic trivia (idiom)
间不容发	jian	fa	(to escape danger etc) by a hair's breadth (idiom); in a critical state; on the brink of crisis
间充质	jian	zhi	mesenchyme (loosely organized embryonic connective tissue)
间充质干细胞	jian	bao	mesenchymal stem cell MSC (in cell biology)
间接宾语	jian	yu	indirect object (grammar)
间接税	jian	shui	indirect tax
间接证据	jian	ju	indirect testimony; circumstantial evidence
间接选举	jian	ju	indirect election
间歇训练	jian	lian	interval training
间皮瘤	jian	liu	mesothelioma (medicine)
间谍活动	jian	dong	espionage; spying
间谍网	jian	wang	spy network
间谍罪	jian	zui	crime of spying
间谍软件	jian	jian	spyware
间隔号	jian	hao	middle dot (·), a punctuation mark used in Chinese text to separate the parts of a transliterated foreign name or elements in a list
间隔摄影	jian	ying	time-lapse photography
间隔重复	jian	fu	spaced repetition
闵科夫斯基	min	ji	Minkowski (name); Hermann Minkowski (1864-1909), German mathematician
闵行区	min	qu	Minhang District of Shanghai
闷声不响	men	xiang	to keep silent
闷声发大财	men	cai	to amass wealth while keeping a low profile (idiom)
闷声闷气	men	qi	muffled
闷葫芦	men	lu	lit. closed gourd; fig. enigma; complete mystery
闷闷不乐	men	le	depressed; sulky; moody
闹别扭	nao	niu	to be difficult with sb; to provoke disagreement; at loggerheads
闹哄哄	nao	hong	clamorous; noisy; sensational
闹太套	nao	tao	(Internet slang) transcription of "not at all" – English words in a song promoting the 2008 Beijing Olympics sung by Huang Xiaoming 黃曉明|黄晓明[Huang2 Xiao3 ming2], who became a laughing stock in China because his pronunciation was perceived as embarrassingly bad; to be a laughing stock; to make a fool of oneself (i.e. equivalent to 鬧笑話|闹笑话[nao4 xiao4 hua5])
闹市区	nao	qu	busy commercial district; downtown area
闹情绪	nao	xu	to be in a bad mood
闹新房	nao	fang	see 鬧洞房|闹洞房[nao4 dong4 fang2]
闹洞房	nao	fang	disturbing the privacy of bridal room (Chinese custom where guests banter with and play pranks on the newlyweds)
闹着玩儿	nao	r	to play games; to joke around; to play a joke on sb
闹矛盾	nao	dun	to be at loggerheads; to have a falling out
闹笑话	nao	hua	to make a fool of oneself
闹糊糊	nao	hu	to cause trouble
闹翻天	nao	tian	to create a big disturbance
闹肚子	nao	zi	(coll.) to have diarrhea
闹脾气	nao	qi	to get angry
闹轰轰	nao	hong	variant of 鬧哄哄|闹哄哄[nao4 hong1 hong1]
闹铃时钟	nao	zhong	alarm clock
闹闹攘攘	nao	rang	to create an uproar
闺门旦	gui	dan	young unmarried lady role in Chinese opera
闻一多	wen	duo	Wen Yiduo (1899-1946), poet and patriotic fighter, executed by Guomindang in Kunming
闻一知十	wen	shi	lit. to hear one and know ten (idiom); fig. explain one thing and (he) understands everything; a word to the wise
闻上去	wen	qu	to smell of sth; to smell like sth
闻名不如见面	wen	mian	knowing sb by their reputation can't compare to meeting them in person (idiom)
闻名于世	wen	shi	world-famous
闻名遐迩	wen	er	(idiom) to be famous far and wide
闻喜县	wen	xian	Wenxi, a county in Yuncheng City 運城市|运城市[Yun4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
闻所未闻	wen	wen	unheard of; an extremely rare and unprecedented event
闻过则喜	wen	xi	to accept criticism gladly (humble expr.); to be happy when one's errors are pointed out
闻风丧胆	wen	dan	hear the wind and lose gall (idiom); terror-stricken at the news
闻风先遁	wen	dun	to flee at hearing the news (idiom)
闻风而动	wen	dong	to respond instantly; to act at once on hearing the news
闻鸡起舞	wen	wu	to start practicing at the first crow of the cock (idiom); to be diligent in one's studies
闽侯县	min	xian	Minhou, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
闽南话	min	hua	Southern Min, a family of Sinitic languages spoken in southern Fujian and surrounding areas; Hokkien, major variety of Southern Min
闽南语	min	yu	Southern Min, a Sinitic language spoken in southern Fujian and surrounding areas; Hokkien, the most widely spoken variety of Southern Min
闽清县	min	xian	Minqing, a county in Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
阅兵式	yue	shi	military parade
阅听人	yue	ren	(Tw) audience
阅女无数	yue	shu	(idiom) to have had relationships with many women
阅微草堂笔记	yue	ji	Notes on a Minutely Observed Thatched Hut by Ji Yun 紀昀|纪昀[Ji4 Yun2], novel of the supernatural; The Thatched Study of Close Scrutiny
阅男无数	yue	shu	(idiom) to have had relationships with many men
阅览室	yue	shi	reading room; CL:間|间[jian1]
阅读器	yue	qi	reader (software)
阅读广度	yue	du	reading span
阅读理解	yue	jie	reading comprehension
阅读装置	yue	zhi	electronic reader (e.g. for barcodes, RFID tags etc)
阅读障碍	yue	ai	dyslexia
阆中市	lang	shi	Langzhong, a county-level city in Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
阆风巅	lang	dian	Langfeng Mountain; same as Langyuan 閬苑|阆苑[Lang4 yuan4] paradise, home of the immortals in verse and legends
阎王好见小鬼难当	yan	dang	lit. standing in front of the King of Hell is easy, but smaller devils are difficult to deal with (idiom)
阎王殿	yan	dian	Yama's palace
阎王爷	yan	ye	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
阎罗殿	yan	dian	Yama's palace
阎罗王	yan	wang	(Buddhism) Yama, the King of Hell
阎良区	yan	qu	Yanliang, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
阎锡山	yan	shan	Yan Xishan (1883-1960), warlord in Shanxi
阑尾切除术	lan	shu	appendectomy (medicine)
阑尾炎	lan	yan	appendicitis (medicine)
阔嘴鹬	kuo	yu	(bird species of China) broad-billed sandpiper (Calidris falcinellus)
阖第光临	he	lin	the whole family is invited (idiom)
阖闾城	he	cheng	capital city of King Helu of Wu from 6th century BC, at modern Wuxi, Jiangsu
阖闾城遗址	he	zhi	ruins of capital city of King Helu of Wu, from 6th century BC, at modern Wuxi, Jiangsu
阙特勤	que	qin	Kul Tigin or Kultegin (685–c. 731), general of the Second Turkic Khaganate
阜南县	fu	xian	Funan, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
阜城县	fu	xian	Fucheng, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
阜宁县	fu	xian	Funing, a county in Yancheng City 鹽城市|盐城市[Yan2 cheng2 Shi4], Jiangsu
阜平县	fu	xian	Fuping, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
阜康市	fu	shi	Fukang, a county-level city in Changji Hui Autonomous Prefecture 昌吉回族自治州[Chang1 ji2 Hui2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阜成门	fu	men	Fuchengmen neighborhood of Beijing
阜新县	fu	xian	see 阜新蒙古族自治縣|阜新蒙古族自治县[Fu4 xin1 Meng3 gu3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
阜新市	fu	shi	Fuxin, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
阜新蒙古族自治县	fu	xian	Fuxin Mongol Autonomous County, in Fuxin City 阜新市[Fu4 xin1 Shi4], Liaoning
阜阳市	fu	shi	Fuyang, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
阮崇武	ruan	wu	Ruan Chongwu (1933-), third governor of Hainan
阮晋勇	ruan	yong	Nguyễn Tấn Dũng (1949-), prime minister of Vietnam 2006-2016
防不胜防	fang	fang	(idiom) virtually impossible to prevent
防冻剂	fang	ji	antifreeze agent
防化救援	fang	yuan	antichemical rescue
防卫大臣	fang	chen	minister of defense (esp. in Japan)
防卫武器	fang	qi	defensive weapon
防卫过当	fang	dang	excessive self-defense (self-defense with excessive force)
防喘振	fang	zhen	(turbomachinery design) anti-surge
防喷罩	fang	zhao	pop filter (audio engineering)
防城区	fang	qu	Fangcheng, a district of Fangchenggang City 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4], Guangxi
防城港	fang	gang	see 防城港市[Fang2 cheng2 gang3 Shi4]
防城港市	fang	shi	Fangchenggang, prefecture-level city in Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region 廣西壯族自治區|广西壮族自治区[Guang3 xi1 Zhuang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
防守者	fang	zhe	defender
防寒服	fang	fu	overcoat; down jacket; winter wear
防弹衣	fang	yi	bulletproof vest
防御工事	fang	shi	fortification; defensive structure
防御性	fang	xing	defensive (weapons)
防御术	fang	shu	defensive art
防御率	fang	lv	earned run average (baseball)
防微杜渐	fang	jian	to nip in the bud (idiom)
防患于未然	fang	ran	see 防患未然[fang2 huan4 wei4 ran2]
防患未然	fang	ran	to prevent troubles before the event (idiom); to forestall; to nip sth in the bud
防患未萌	fang	meng	to prevent a disaster before the event (idiom); to nip sth in the bud
防护服	fang	fu	protective clothing; hazmat suit
防护眼镜	fang	jing	safety goggles
防晒油	fang	you	sunscreen; sunblock
防晒霜	fang	shuang	suntan lotion; sunscreen cream
防暑降温	fang	wen	to prevent heatstroke and reduce temperature
防暴盾	fang	dun	riot shield
防暴警察	fang	cha	riot police; riot squad
防毒围裙	fang	qun	protective apron
防毒手套	fang	tao	protective gloves
防毒斗篷	fang	peng	protective cape
防毒软件	fang	jian	anti-virus software
防毒通道	fang	dao	protective passageway
防毒面具	fang	ju	gas mask
防毒面罩	fang	zhao	gas mask
防毒靴套	fang	tao	gas-protection boots; protective boots
防波堤	fang	di	breakwater; seawall; fig. defensive buffer zone
防滑链	fang	lian	snow chain (for a vehicle tire)
防潮垫	fang	dian	groundsheet (for camping etc)
防潮堤	fang	di	tide embankment
防火墙	fang	qiang	firewall
防火梯	fang	ti	fire escape
防火道	fang	dao	firebreak
防火长城	fang	cheng	Great Firewall of China (system for restricting access to foreign websites)
防焊油墨	fang	mo	solder mask (applied to a circuit board)
防狼喷雾	fang	wu	pepper spray
防盗门	fang	men	security door
防空洞	fang	dong	air raid shelter; bomb shelter; (fig.) place that protects bad people; hideout
防空避难	fang	nan	(Tw) evacuation to an air-raid shelter
防空避难所	fang	suo	(Tw) air-raid shelter
防腐剂	fang	ji	preservative; antiseptic
防蚊液	fang	ye	mosquito repellent
防风固沙	fang	sha	sand break (in desert environment)
阳世间	yang	jian	the world of the living
阳东区	yang	qu	Yangdong, a district of Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
阳信县	yang	xian	Yangxin, a county in Binzhou City 濱州市|滨州市[Bin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
阳光房	yang	fang	sunroom
阳光明媚	yang	mei	the sun shines brightly (idiom)
阳光普照	yang	zhao	(idiom) sunlight shines over all things; drenched in sunlight
阳光浴	yang	yu	sunbathing
阳关大道	yang	dao	(lit.) the road through Yangguan 陽關|阳关[Yang2 guan1]; (fig.) wide open road; bright future
阳关道	yang	dao	same as 陽關大道|阳关大道[Yang2 guan1 Da4 dao4]
阳原县	yang	xian	Yangyuan, a county in Zhangjiakou City 張家口市|张家口市[Zhang1 jia1 kou3 Shi4], Hebei
阳城县	yang	xian	Yangcheng, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
阳奉阴违	yang	wei	outward devotion but inner opposition (idiom); to pay lip service; to agree overtly, but oppose in secret
阳山县	yang	xian	Yangshan, a county in Qingyuan City 清遠市|清远市[Qing1 yuan3 Shi4], Guangdong
阳平声	yang	sheng	evenly rising tone, the second tone of putonghua
阳新县	yang	xian	Yangxin, a county in Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
阳明区	yang	qu	Yangming, a district of Mudanjiang City 牡丹江市[Mu3 dan1 jiang1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
阳明山	yang	shan	Mt Yangming in Hunan; Mt Yangming in north Taiwan, near Taibei
阳春型	yang	xing	entry-level (car, device etc) (Tw)
阳春市	yang	shi	Yangchun, a county-level city in Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
阳春白雪	yang	xue	melodies of the elite in the state of Chu 楚國|楚国[Chu3 guo2]; highbrow art and literature
阳春面	yang	mian	plain noodles in broth
阳曲县	yang	xian	Yangqu, a county in Taiyuan City 太原市[Tai4 yuan2 Shi4], Shanxi
阳朔县	yang	xian	Yangshuo, a county in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
阳江市	yang	shi	Yangjiang, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
阳泉市	yang	shi	Yangquan, prefecture-level city in Shanxi Province 山西省[Shan1 xi1 Sheng3]
阳电子	yang	zi	positron; also called 正電子|正电子[zheng4 dian4 zi3]
阳电极	yang	ji	anode; positive electrode (i.e. attracting electrons)
阳电荷	yang	he	positive electric charge
阳离子	yang	zi	positive ion; cation (physics)
阳西县	yang	xian	Yangxi, a county in Yangjiang City 陽江市|阳江市[Yang2 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
阳谷县	yang	xian	Yanggu, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
阳高县	yang	xian	Yanggao, a county in Datong City 大同市[Da4 tong2 Shi4], Shanxi
阴凉处	yin	chu	shady place
阴差阳错	yin	cuo	(idiom) due to an unexpected turn of events
阴平声	yin	sheng	high and level tone, the first tone of putonghua
阴暗面	yin	mian	the dark side (of society etc)
阴曹地府	yin	fu	netherworld; Kingdom of the Underworld; Hades
阴极射线管	yin	guan	cathode ray tube
阴沉沉	yin	chen	dark (weather, mood)
阴沟里翻船	yin	chuan	to meet with unexpected failure (idiom); to fail miserably (where failure was not expected)
阴离子	yin	zi	negative ion; anion (physics)
阴茎套	yin	tao	condom; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
阴虚火旺	yin	wang	an excess of heat caused by a deficiency in Yin energy (idiom)
阴谋家	yin	jia	schemer; conspirator
阴谋论	yin	lun	conspiracy theory
阴谋诡计	yin	ji	crafty plots and machinations (idiom)
阴谋颠覆政府罪	yin	zui	the crime of conspiracy to overthrow the government
阴道口	yin	kou	female external genitalia (anatomy); vulva
阴道炎	yin	yan	vaginal infection; inflammation of the vulva or vagina; colpitis
阴道瓣	yin	ban	hymen
阴错阳差	yin	cha	see 陰差陽錯|阴差阳错[yin1 cha1 yang2 cuo4]
阴阳合同	yin	tong	a deal where the parties collude to sign an under-the-table "yin contract" 陰合同|阴合同 as well as an ostensibly genuine "yang contract" 陽合同|阳合同 in order to deceive authorities
阴阳家	yin	jia	School of Yin-Yang of the Warring States Period (475-221 BC) founded by Zou Yan 鄒衍|邹衍[Zou1 Yan3]
阴阳怪气	yin	qi	eccentric; peculiar; mystifying
阴险毒辣	yin	la	treacherous and murderous
阴魂不散	yin	san	lit. the soul of a deceased has not yet dispersed (idiom); fig. the influence still lingers on; the spirit (of some doctrine) is still alive
阵亡战士纪念日	zhen	ri	Memorial Day (American holiday)
阵亡者	zhen	zhe	people killed in battle
阵痛期	zhen	qi	trying times; painful phase
阶梯教室	jie	shi	lecture theater
阶梯计价	jie	jia	volumetric pricing; tiered pricing; differential pricing
阶段性	jie	xing	specific to a particular stage (of a project etc); interim (policy etc); occurring in stages
阶级成分	jie	fen	social composition; social status (in Marxist theory, esp. using during the Cultural Revolution)
阶级斗争	jie	zheng	class struggle
阻差办公	zu	gong	(law) obstructing government administration (Hong Kong)
阻抗匹配	zu	pei	impedance matching
阻抗变换器	zu	qi	impedance converter
阻断服务攻击	zu	ji	(Tw) (computing) denial-of-service attack (DDOS)
阿丽亚娜	a	na	Ariane (name); Ariane European space launch vehicle
阿亚图拉	a	la	ayatollah (religious leader in Shia Islam)
阿什哈巴德	a	de	Ashgabat, capital of Turkmenistan
阿什哈巴特	a	te	Ashgabat, capital of Turkmenistan (Tw)
阿什拉维	a	wei	surname Ashrawi; Hanan Daoud Khalil Ashrawi (1946-), Palestinian scholar and political activist
阿仙药	a	yao	gambier extract (from Uncaria gambir), used in TCM
阿伊努	a	nu	Ainu (ethnic group of Japan's north and Russia's east)
阿伊莎	a	sha	Ayshe, Aise or Ayesha (name); Aishah bint Abi Bakr (c. 614-678), youngest wife of prophet Mohamed 穆罕默德[Mu4 han3 mo4 de2]
阿伏伽德罗	a	luo	Amedeo Avogadro (1776-1856), Italian scientist
阿伏伽德罗常数	a	shu	Avogadro's number (chemistry)
阿伦达尔	a	er	Arendal (city in Agder, Norway)
阿伯丁	a	ding	Aberdeen (city on east coast of Scotland)
阿佛洛狄忒	a	te	Aphrodite, Greek goddess of love
阿依莎	a	sha	Ayshe, Aise or Ayesha (name); Aishah bint Abi Bakr (c. 614-678), youngest wife of prophet Mohamed 穆罕默德[Mu4 han3 mo4 de2]; also written 阿伊莎
阿修罗	a	luo	Asura, malevolent spirits in Indian mythology
阿克伦	a	lun	Acheron River in Epirus, northwest Greece
阿克伦河	a	he	Acheron River in Epirus, northwest Greece
阿克塞	a	sai	see 阿克塞哈薩克族自治縣|阿克塞哈萨克族自治县[A1 ke4 sai4 Ha1 sa4 ke4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
阿克塞县	a	xian	see 阿克塞哈薩克族自治縣|阿克塞哈萨克族自治县[A1 ke4 sai4 Ha1 sa4 ke4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
阿克拉	a	la	Accra, capital of Ghana
阿克苏	a	su	see 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1]; see 阿克蘇市|阿克苏市[A1 ke4 su1 Shi4]; see 阿克蘇河|阿克苏河[A1 ke4 su1 He2]
阿克苏地区	a	qu	Aksu, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿克苏市	a	shi	Aksu, a county-level city in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
阿克苏河	a	he	Aksu River in Xinjiang
阿克赛钦	a	qin	Aksai Chin, a disputed region in the Tibetan plateau
阿克陶	a	tao	see 阿克陶縣|阿克陶县[A1 ke4 tao2 Xian4]
阿克陶县	a	xian	Akto, a county in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿兰文	a	wen	Aramaic
阿兰若	a	re	Buddhist temple (transliteration of Sanskrit "Aranyakah")
阿兵哥	a	ge	(coll.) soldier boy
阿其所好	e	hao	to pander to sb's whims
阿兹海默症	a	zheng	(Tw) Alzheimer's disease
阿兹特克	a	ke	Aztec
阿凡提	a	ti	the Effendi (Nasreddin), the hero of folk tales of the Muslim world, known for his wisdom and humor
阿凡达	a	da	Avatar (movie)
阿列克西斯	a	si	Alexis (name)
阿列夫	a	fu	aleph (first letter א of Hebrew alphabet)
阿利坎特	a	te	Alicante
阿利藤	a	teng	Alyxia root and herb (used in TCM)
阿加维	a	wei	see 阿爾加維|阿尔加维[A1 er3 jia1 wei2]
阿加迪尔	a	er	Agadir, city in southwest Morocco
阿勒泰	a	tai	see 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1]; see 阿勒泰市[A1 le4 tai4 Shi4]
阿勒泰地区	a	qu	Altay, prefecture in Xinjiang Uyghur Autonomous Region 新疆維吾爾自治區|新疆维吾尔自治区[Xin1 jiang1 Wei2 wu2 er3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿勒泰市	a	shi	Altay, a county-level city in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
阿华田	a	tian	Ovaltine (brand)
阿卜杜拉	a	la	Abdullah (name)
阿卡提	a	di	Arcadia (Greek prefecture on the Peloponnese)
阿卡普尔科	a	ke	Acapulco, city in Mexico
阿卡贝拉	a	la	(loanword) a cappella
阿卡迪亚	a	ya	(place name) Arcadia
阿卡迪亚大学	a	xue	Acadia University (Canada)
阿司匹林	a	lin	(loanword) aspirin
阿合奇	a	qi	see 阿合奇縣|阿合奇县[A1 he2 qi2 Xian4]
阿合奇县	a	xian	Akqi, a county in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿喀琉斯	a	si	Achilles (or Akhilleus or Achilleus), son of Thetis and Peleus, Greek hero central to the Iliad
阿嘿颜	a	yan	variant of 阿黑顏|阿黑颜[a1 hei1 yan2]
阿图什	a	shi	see 阿圖什市|阿图什市[A1 tu2 shi2 Shi4]
阿图什市	a	shi	Artush, a county-level city in Kizilsu Kyrgyz Autonomous Prefecture 克孜勒蘇柯爾克孜自治州|克孜勒苏柯尔克孜自治州[Ke4 zi1 le4 su1 Ke1 er3 ke4 zi1 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿坝县	a	xian	Ngawa, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
阿坝州	a	zhou	see 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
阿坝藏族羌族自治州	a	zhou	Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture, in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
阿城区	a	qu	Acheng, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
阿基米德	a	de	Archimedes (c. 287-212 BC)
阿堵物	e	wu	(literary) (euphemism) money (literally, "this thing")
阿塞拜疆	a	jiang	Azerbaijan
阿多尼斯	a	si	Adonis, figure in Greek mythology
阿多诺	a	nuo	surname Adorno; Theodor Ludwig Wiesengrund Adorno 狄奧多·阿多諾|狄奥多·阿多诺[Di2 ao4 duo1 · A1 duo1 nuo4] (1903-1969), German sociologist, philosopher, musicologist, and composer
阿奇里斯	a	si	Achilles (or Akhilleus or Achilleus), son of Thetis and Peleus, Greek hero central to the Iliad
阿奇霉素	a	su	(pharmacology) azithromycin
阿奎纳	a	na	surname Aquinas; Thomas Aquinas 托馬斯·阿奎納|托马斯·阿奎纳[Tuo1 ma3 si1 · A1 kui2 na4] (1225-1274)
阿契美尼德王朝	a	chao	Achaemenid Dynasty, (559–330 BC), ancient Iranian dynasty whose kings ruled the Achaemenid Empire
阿姆哈拉	a	la	Amhara (province, language and ethnic group of Ethiopia); Amharic; Ethiopian
阿姆斯特丹	a	dan	Amsterdam, capital of Netherlands
阿姆斯特朗	a	lang	surname Armstrong
阿姆河	a	he	Amu Darya, the biggest river of Central Asia, from Pamir to Aral sea, forming the boundary between Afghanistan and Tajikistan then flowing through Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan; formerly called Oxus by Greek and Western writers, and Gihon by medieval Islamic writers
阿富汗	a	han	Afghanistan
阿富汗语	a	yu	Afghan (language); Pashto language
阿尔伯塔	a	ta	Alberta province of Canada, capital Edmonton 埃德蒙頓|埃德蒙顿[Ai1 de2 meng2 dun4]
阿尔伯特	a	te	Albert (name)
阿尔加维	a	wei	the Algarve (southern region of Portugal)
阿尔卑斯	a	si	alps (mountain range)
阿尔卡特	a	te	Alcatel, old company name
阿尔及利亚	a	ya	Algeria
阿尔及利亚人	a	ren	Algerian
阿尔及尔	a	er	Algiers, capital of Algeria
阿尔坎塔拉	a	la	Alcántara, municipality in the province of Cáceres, Extremadura, Spain; Alcantara, Brazil space launch site
阿尔山	a	shan	see 阿爾山市|阿尔山市[A1 er3 shan1 Shi4]
阿尔山市	a	shi	Arxan, a county-level city in Hinggan League 興安盟|兴安盟[Xing1 an1 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
阿尔巴尼亚	a	ya	Albania
阿尔巴尼亚人	a	ren	Albanian (person)
阿尔斯通公司	a	si	Alstom (company name)
阿尔梅里亚	a	ya	Almería
阿尔汉格尔斯克州	a	zhou	Arkhangelsk Oblast, Russia
阿尔法	a	fa	alpha (Greek letter Α, α)
阿尔法男	a	nan	alpha male
阿尔法粒子	a	zi	alpha particle (helium nucleus)
阿尔泰	a	tai	Altai republic in Russian central Asia, capital Gorno-Altaysk
阿尔泰山	a	shan	Altai mountain range in Xinjiang and Siberia
阿尔泰山脉	a	mai	Altai mountain chain on the border of Russia and Mongolia
阿尔泰紫菀	a	wan	(botany) Aster altaicus
阿尔泰语	a	yu	Altaic language
阿尔泰雪鸡	a	ji	(bird species of China) Altai snowcock (Tetraogallus altaicus)
阿尔瓦塞特	a	te	Albacete (capital city of Spain's Albacete Province)
阿尔盖达	a	da	al-Qaeda
阿尔茨海默	a	mo	Alois Alzheimer (1864–1915), German psychiatrist and neuropathologist
阿尔茨海默氏病	a	bing	Alzheimer's disease
阿尔茨海默氏症	a	zheng	Alzheimer's disease
阿尔茨海默病	a	bing	Alzheimer's disease
阿尔茨海默症	a	zheng	Alzheimer's disease
阿尔萨斯	a	si	Alsace, French department
阿尔衮琴	a	qin	Algonquin (North American people)
阿尔都塞	a	sai	surname Althusser; Louis Pierre Althusser (1918–1990), Marxist philosopher
阿尼林	a	lin	(chemistry) (loanword) aniline
阿巴嘎旗	a	qi	Abag banner or Avga khoshuu in Xilingol League 錫林郭勒盟|锡林郭勒盟[Xi1 lin2 guo1 le4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
阿巴拉契亚	a	ya	Appalachian Mountains in North America
阿巴斯	a	si	Mahmoud Abbas (1935–), Palestinian politician, president of the Palestinian National Authority (2005–), also known as Abu Mazen
阿布叔醇	a	chun	albuterol, chemical used in treating asthma
阿布哈兹	a	zi	Abkhazia
阿布扎比	a	bi	Abu Dhabi, capital of United Arab Emirates (UAE)
阿布沙耶夫	a	fu	Abu Sayyaf, militant Islamist separatist group also known as al-Harakat al-Islamiyya
阿布贾	a	jia	Abuja, capital of Nigeria
阿布达比	a	bi	Abu Dhabi, capital of United Arab Emirates (Tw)
阿希姆	a	mu	Askim (city in Østfold, Norway)
阿弗洛狄忒	a	te	variant of 阿佛洛狄忒[A1 fu2 luo4 di2 te4]
阿弥陀佛	e	fo	Amitabha Buddha; the Buddha of the Western paradise; may the lord Buddha preserve us!
阿弥陀如来	e	lai	Amitabha, Buddha of infinite light
阿彼雅	a	ya	Abijah (biblical name)
阿得拉	a	la	Adderall (stimulant drug)
阿得拉尔	a	er	Adderall (stimulant drug)
阿得莱德	a	de	Adelaide, capital of South Australia
阿德莱德	a	de	Adelaide, capital of South Australia
阿德雷德	a	de	Adelaide, capital of South Australia; also written 阿德萊德|阿德莱德
阿房宫	e	gong	Epang Palace, palace complex in western Xi'an built by Qin Shihuang 秦始皇[Qin2 Shi3 huang2]; also pr. [E1fang2 Gong1]
阿托品	a	pin	atropine C17H23NO3, alkaloid drug derived from deadly nightshade (Atropa belladonna)
阿拉丁	a	ding	Aladdin, character in one of the tales in the The Book of One Thousand and One Nights
阿拉伯	a	bo	Arabian; Arabic; Arab
阿拉伯人	a	ren	Arab; Arabian; Arabian people
阿拉伯共同市场	a	chang	Arab Common Market
阿拉伯半岛	a	dao	Arabian Peninsula
阿拉伯国家联盟	a	meng	League of Arab States; Arab League
阿拉伯数字	a	zi	Arabic numerals 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9
阿拉伯文	a	wen	Arabic (language & writing)
阿拉伯海	a	hai	Arabian Sea
阿拉伯糖	a	tang	arabinose (type of sugar)
阿拉伯联合大公国	a	guo	United Arab Emirates (Tw)
阿拉伯联合酋长国	a	guo	United Arab Emirates (UAE)
阿拉伯胶	a	jiao	gum arabic; acacia gum
阿拉伯茴香	a	xiang	see 孜然[zi1 ran2], cumin
阿拉伯语	a	yu	Arabic (language)
阿拉善	a	shan	see 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2]
阿拉善右旗	a	qi	Alxa Right Banner, Mongolian Alshaa Baruun khoshuu, in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
阿拉善左旗	a	qi	Alxa Left Banner, Mongolian Alshaa Züün khoshuu, in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
阿拉善盟	a	meng	Alxa, league in Inner Mongolia Autonomous Region 內蒙古自治區|内蒙古自治区[Nei4 meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿拉塔斯	a	si	surname Alatas; Ali Alatas (1932-2008), Indonesian foreign minister (1988-1999)
阿拉尔	a	er	Aral shehiri (Aral city) or Ālā'ěr subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
阿拉尔市	a	shi	Aral shehiri (Aral city) or Ālā'ěr subprefecture level city in west Xinjiang
阿拉山口	a	kou	see 阿拉山口市[A1 la1 shan1 kou3 Shi4]
阿拉山口市	a	shi	Alashankou, a county-level city in Bortala Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 博爾塔拉蒙古自治州|博尔塔拉蒙古自治州[Bo2 er3 ta3 la1 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
阿拉巴马	a	ma	Alabama, US state
阿拉干山脉	a	mai	Arakan Mountains (aka Rakhine Mountains), mountain range in western Myanmar
阿拉弗拉海	a	hai	Arafura Sea
阿拉摩	a	mo	Alamo, city in United States
阿拉斯	a	si	Arras, town in northern France
阿拉斯加	a	jia	Alaska, US state
阿拉斯加大学	a	xue	University of Alaska
阿拉斯加雪橇犬	a	quan	Alaskan malamute
阿拉木图	a	tu	Almaty, previous capital of Kazakhstan
阿拉法特	a	te	Mohammed Abdel Rahman Abdel Raouf Arafat al-Qudwa al-Husseini (1929-2004), Palestinian leader, popularly known as Yasser Arafat 亞西爾·阿拉法特|亚西尔·阿拉法特[Ya4 xi1 er3 · A1 la1 fa3 te4]
阿拉瓦	a	wa	Araba or Álava
阿拉米语	a	yu	Aramaic (language)
阿拔斯王朝	a	chao	Abbasid Empire (750-1258), successor of the Umayyad caliphate
阿拖品化	a	hua	atropinization
阿提拉	a	la	Attila (406-453), Hun emperor, known as the scourge of God
阿摩司书	a	shu	Book of Amos, one of the books of the Nevi'im and of the Christian Old Testament
阿摩尼亚	a	ya	(loanword) ammonia
阿摩尼亚水	a	shui	ammonia solution
阿斯伯格	a	ge	see 阿斯佩爾格爾|阿斯佩尔格尔[A1 si1 pei4 er3 ge2 er3]
阿斯佩尔格尔	a	er	Hans Asperger (1906-1980), Austrian pediatrician
阿斯兰	a	lan	Aslan (from the Narnia chronicles)
阿斯利康	a	kang	AstraZeneca (British-Swedish pharmaceutical company)
阿斯匹林	a	lin	aspirin (loanword) (variant of 阿司匹林[a1 si1 pi3 lin2])
阿斯匹灵	a	ling	(Tw) (loanword) aspirin
阿斯图里亚斯	a	si	Asturias, northwest Spanish autonomous principality on the bay of Biscay; ancient Spanish kingdom from which the reconquista was based
阿斯塔纳	a	na	Astana, capital of Kazakhstan
阿斯巴特	a	te	aspartame C14H18N2O (artificial sweetener)
阿斯巴甜	a	tian	(loanword) aspartame
阿斯旺	a	wang	Aswan (town in south Egypt)
阿斯旺高坝	a	ba	the Aswan dam in south Egypt
阿斯马拉	a	la	Asmara, capital of Eritrea
阿旺曲培	a	pei	Ngawang Choephel (1966-), Tibetan musicologist and dissident, Fullbright scholar (1993-1994), jailed 1995-2002 then released to US
阿旺曲沛	a	pei	Ngawang Choepel (Tibetan, Fulbright scholar)
阿昌族	a	zu	Achang ethnic group
阿昔洛韦	a	wei	aciclovir (also spelled acyclovir), antiviral drug
阿是穴	a	xue	(TCM) ashi point: a tender spot that is not a standard acupuncture point
阿普吐龙	a	long	apatosaurus; former name: brontosaurus; also called 雷龍|雷龙[lei2 long2]
阿普尔顿	a	dun	Appleton (name); Sir Edward Appleton (1892-1965), British physicist, Nobel laureate who discovered the ionosphere
阿曼湾	a	wan	Gulf of Oman
阿月浑子	a	zi	pistachio
阿月浑子树	a	shu	pistachio tree
阿木林	a	lin	dullard; stupid person
阿松森岛	a	dao	Ascension Island
阿根廷	a	ting	Argentina
阿格尼迪	a	di	Agnus Dei (section of Catholic mass)
阿梵达	a	da	(loanword) avatar
阿森松岛	a	dao	Ascension Island
阿森纳	a	na	Arsenal Football Club
阿比西尼亚	a	ya	Abyssinia, historical name of Ethiopia
阿比西尼亚人	a	ren	Abyssinian (person)
阿比让	a	rang	Abidjan (city in Ivory Coast)
阿沙力	a	li	variant of 阿莎力[a1 sha1 li4]
阿法尔	a	er	Afar region of northeast Ethiopia; Afar people
阿法尔沙漠	a	mo	Afar Desert, Southern Ethiopia
阿法罗密欧	a	ou	Alfa Romeo
阿波罗	a	luo	Apollo (loanword)
阿波罗计划	a	hua	the Apollo project (1961-1975), the NASA moon landing project
阿洛菲	a	fei	Alofi, capital of Niue
阿灵顿国家公墓	a	mu	Arlington National Cemetery in Washington DC, USA
阿爸父	a	fu	Abba (Aramaic word father); by ext. God the Father in Christian gospel
阿物儿	a	r	thing; (you) useless thing
阿特兰蒂斯	a	si	Atlantis
阿特拉斯	a	si	Atlas, a Titan in Greek mythology; Atlas Mountains in North Africa
阿特金斯	a	si	Atkins (name)
阿狄森氏病	a	bing	Addison's disease
阿猫阿狗	a	gou	(idiom) (coll.) any Tom, Dick or Harry; just about anyone (used dismissively)
阿玛尼	a	ni	Armani (fashion designer)
阿瑞斯	a	si	Ares, Greek god of war; Mars
阿瓦提	a	ti	see 阿瓦提縣|阿瓦提县[A1 wa3 ti2 Xian4]
阿瓦提县	a	xian	Awat, a county in Aksu Prefecture 阿克蘇地區|阿克苏地区[A1 ke4 su1 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
阿瓦里德	a	de	Prince Alwaleed Bin Talal al-Saud of Saudi Arabia
阿瓦鲁阿	a	a	Avarua, capital of the Cook Islands
阿甘正传	a	zhuan	Forrest Gump
阿留申群岛	a	dao	Aleutian Islands (trailing 2250 km southwest of Alaska almost down to Kamtchatka)
阿的平	a	ping	atabrine or quinacrine, used as antimalarial drug and antibiotic against intestinal parasite giardiasis
阿皮亚	a	ya	Apia, capital of the Independent State of Samoa
阿盖达	a	da	al-Qaeda
阿穆尔州	a	zhou	Amur Oblast, in far eastern Russia
阿穆尔河	a	he	Amur River (the border between northeast China and Russia); same as 黑龍江|黑龙江[Hei1 long2 jiang1]
阿空加瓜	a	gua	see 阿空加瓜山[A1 kong1 jia1 gua1 Shan1]
阿空加瓜山	a	shan	Mount Aconcagua, Argentina, the highest point in the Western Hemisphere
阿米巴	a	ba	(loanword) amoeba
阿米巴原虫	a	chong	amoeba; ameba
阿米巴病	a	bing	amebiasis; amebic dysentery
阿米巴痢疾	a	ji	amebic dysentery
阿米纳达布	a	bu	Amminadab (name)
阿维拉	a	la	Avila, Spain
阿罗汉	a	han	arhat (Sanskrit); a holy man who has left behind all earthly desires and concerns and attained nirvana (Buddhism)
阿罗约	a	yue	surname Arroyo
阿美尼亚	a	ya	variant of 亞美尼亞|亚美尼亚[Ya4 mei3 ni2 ya4], Armenia
阿美恩斯	a	si	Amiens (French town)
阿美族	a	zu	Amis or Pangcah, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
阿耳忒弥斯	a	si	Artemis (Greek goddess of the moon)
阿耳戈斯	a	si	Argus; in Greek mythology, a monster with 100 eyes, transformed into peacock's tail
阿联酋	a	qiu	United Arab Emirates (abbr. for 阿拉伯聯合酋長國|阿拉伯联合酋长国[A1 la1 bo2 Lian2 he2 Qiu2 zhang3 guo2])
阿联酋航空	a	kong	Emirates (airline)
阿联酋长国	a	guo	United Arab Emirates (abbr. for 阿拉伯聯合酋長國|阿拉伯联合酋长国[A1 la1 bo2 Lian2 he2 Qiu2 zhang3 guo2])
阿肯色	a	se	Arkansas, US state
阿肯色大学	a	xue	University of Arkansas
阿育吠陀	a	tuo	Ayurveda (ancient Indian system and health care philosophy)
阿育王	a	wang	Ashoka (304-232 BC), Indian emperor of the Maurya Dynasty 孔雀王朝[Kong3 que4 Wang2 chao2], ruled 273-232 BC
阿育魏实	a	shi	seed of ajwain; Semen Trachyspermi coptici
阿芒拿	a	na	(chemistry) (loanword) ammonal
阿芙乐尔号	a	hao	the Russian cruiser Aurora, whose blank shot in 1917 signaled the start of the October Revolution
阿芙罗狄忒	a	te	see 阿佛洛狄忒[A1 fu2 luo4 di2 te4]
阿芙蓉	a	rong	opium
阿芝特克人	a	ren	Aztec (person)
阿芝特克语	a	yu	Aztec language (Nahuatl)
阿苏山	a	shan	Mount Aso, active volcano in Kyushu, Japan
阿茨海默症	a	zheng	Alzheimer's disease
阿荣旗	a	qi	Arun banner or Arongqi county in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾|呼伦贝尔[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3], Inner Mongolia
阿莎力	a	li	(coll.) straightforward; unreserved; openhearted (Tw) (loanword from Japanese "assari")
阿莫西林	a	lin	(loanword) amoxicillin
阿莱奇冰川	a	chuan	Aletsch glacier, Switzerland
阿莱曼	a	man	El Alamein, town in Egypt
阿莲区	a	qu	Alian, a rural district of Kaohsiung 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 Shi4], Taiwan
阿萨姆	a	mu	Assam, India
阿萨德	a	de	Assad (Arabic name)
阿衣奴	a	nu	see 阿伊努[A1 yi1 nu3]
阿西吧	a	ba	aw, fuck! (loanword from Korean 아! 씨발!)
阿西莫夫	a	fu	Isaac Asimov (1920-1992), American author and biochemist
阿诺德	a	de	(name) Arnold
阿谀奉承	e	cheng	flattering and fawning (idiom); sweet-talking
阿贝尔	a	er	Niels Henrik Abel (1802-1829), Norwegian mathematician; (math.) abelian
阿贝贝	a	bei	(neologism) transitional object; comfort object
阿赫蒂萨里	a	li	Martti Ahtisaari (1937–2023), Finnish politician, peace negotiator and 2008 Nobel peace laureate
阿达比尔	a	er	Ardabil in Azerbaijan region of Iran
阿迪斯阿贝巴	a	ba	Addis Ababa, capital of Ethiopia (Tw)
阿迪达斯	a	si	Adidas (sportswear company)
阿里地区	a	qu	Ngari, prefecture in Tibet Autonomous Region 西藏自治區|西藏自治区[Xi1 zang4 Zi4 zhi4 qu1]
阿里山	a	shan	Alishan mountain range in the central-southern region of Taiwan
阿里巴巴	a	ba	Ali Baba, character from The Arabian Nights
阿里斯托芬	a	fen	Aristophanes (c. 448-380 BC), Greek comic playwright
阿里郎	a	lang	Arirang, famous Korean song of love and tragic separation, based on folk tale from Georyo dynasty; Arirang, series of Korean earth observation space satellites
阿金库尔	a	er	Agincourt (near Arras in north France, scene of a battle in 1415)
阿閦佛	a	fo	Aksobhya, the imperturbable ruler of Eastern Paradise, Abhirati
阿阇梨	a	li	Buddhist teacher (Sanskrit transliteration); also written 阿闍黎|阿阇黎[a1 she2 li2]
阿阇黎	a	li	Buddhist teacher (Sanskrit transliteration); also written 阿闍梨|阿阇梨[a1 she2 li2]
阿难陀	e	tuo	Prince Ananda, cousin of the Buddha and his closest disciple
阿非利加	a	jia	Africa
阿非利加洲	a	zhou	Africa
阿鲁巴	a	ba	Aruba, island in the Caribbean, a self-governing part of the Netherlands
阿鲁科尔沁	a	qin	Ar Horqin banner or Aru Khorchin khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
阿鲁科尔沁旗	a	qi	Ar Horqin banner or Aru Khorchin khoshuu in Chifeng 赤峰[Chi4 feng1], Inner Mongolia
阿鲁纳恰尔邦	a	bang	Arunachal Pradesh, a state of India in the northeast of the country, occupying an area claimed by China in an ongoing sovereignty dispute
阿黑颜	a	yan	(ACG) ahegao (loanword from Japanese アヘ顔)
阿鼻地狱	a	yu	(Buddhism) the Avici Hell, the last and most painful of the eight hot hells
陀思妥也夫斯基	tuo	ji	Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky (1821-1881), great Russian novelist, author of Crime and Punishment 罪與罰|罪与罚[Zui4 yu3 Fa2]; also written 陀思妥耶夫斯基[Tuo2 si1 tuo3 ye1 fu1 si1 ji1]
陀思妥耶夫斯基	tuo	ji	Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky (1821-1881), great Russian novelist, author of Crime and Punishment 罪與罰|罪与罚[Zui4 yu3 Fa2]
陀罗尼	tuo	ni	incantation (Sanskrit: dharani); religious chant (promoting virtue and obstructing evil)
陀螺仪	tuo	yi	gyroscope
附加值	fu	zhi	added-value (accountancy)
附加元件	fu	jian	additional element; (computing) add-on; plug-in
附加物	fu	wu	complement
附加费	fu	fei	surcharge
附加赛	fu	sai	additional competition; play-off; decider
附属品	fu	pin	accessory; affiliated material; adjunct
附属物	fu	wu	attachment; appendage
附属腺	fu	xian	subordinate gland
附带损害	fu	hai	collateral damage (both as a legal term, and as a military euphemism)
附庸风雅	fu	ya	(of an uneducated person) to mingle with the cognoscenti; to pose as a culture lover; to be a culture snob
附着物	fu	wu	fixture (law); attachment
附赘悬疣	fu	you	superfluous or useless appendages; superfluities
附面层	fu	ceng	boundary layer
陆上风电	lu	dian	onshore wind power
陆丰市	lu	shi	Lufeng, a county-level city in Shanwei City 汕尾市[Shan4 wei3 Shi4], Guangdong
陆克文	lu	wen	Chinese name adopted by Kevin Rudd (1957–), Australian politician proficient in Mandarin, prime minister 2007–2010 and 2013
陆军上校	lu	xiao	colonel
陆军中尉	lu	wei	lieutenant
陆军棋	lu	qi	see 軍棋|军棋[jun1 qi2]
陆均松	lu	song	podocarp tree (Dacrydium pierrei)
陆域风电	lu	dian	(Tw) onshore wind power
陆基导弹	lu	dan	land-based missile
陆委会	lu	hui	Mainland Affairs Council (Taiwan), abbr. for 大陸委員會|大陆委员会
陆川县	lu	xian	Luchuan, a county in Yulin City 玉林市[Yu4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
陆征祥	lu	xiang	Lu Zhengxiang (1871-1949), Chinese diplomat and Catholic monk
陆战棋	lu	qi	see 軍棋|军棋[jun1 qi2]
陆战队	lu	dui	marines; marine corps
陆探微	lu	wei	Lu Tanwei (active c. 450-490), one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
陆河县	lu	xian	Luhe, a county in Shanwei City 汕尾市[Shan4 wei3 Shi4], Guangdong
陆海空三军	lu	jun	army, navy, and air force
陆海空军	lu	jun	army, navy and air force
陆港矛盾	lu	dun	tensions between mainland China and Hong Kong (since 1997)
陆良县	lu	xian	Luliang, a county in Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
陆荣廷	lu	ting	Lu Rongting (1858-1928), provincial governor of Guangxi under the Qing, subsequently leader of old Guangxi warlord faction
陆西星	lu	xing	Lu Xixing (1520-c. 1601), Ming Daoist author, to whom the fantasy novel Investiture of the Gods 封神演義|封神演义[Feng1 shen2 Yan3 yi4] is attributed, together with Xu Zhonglin 許仲琳|许仲琳[Xu3 Zhong4 lin2]
陆陆续续	lu	xu	in succession; one after another; continuously
陇南市	long	shi	Longnan, prefecture-level city in Gansu Province 甘肅省|甘肃省[Gan1 su4 Sheng3]
陇川县	long	xian	Longchuan, a county in Dehong Dai and Jingpo Autonomous Prefecture 德宏傣族景頗族自治州|德宏傣族景颇族自治州[De2 hong2 Dai3 zu2 Jing3 po1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
陇海铁路	long	lu	Jiangsu-Gansu railway
陇西县	long	xian	Longxi, a county in Dingxi City 定西市[Ding4 xi1 Shi4], Gansu
陈云林	chen	lin	Chen Yunlin (1941-), chairman of PRC Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits (ARATS) 海峽兩岸關係協會|海峡两岸关系协会[Hai3 xia2 Liang3 an4 Guan1 xi5 Xie2 hui4] (2008-2013)
陈仁锡	chen	xi	Chen Renxi (1581-1636), late Ming scholar and prolific author
陈仓区	chen	qu	Chencang, a district of Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
陈仲琳	chen	lin	Chen Zhonglin, aka Xu Zhonglin 許仲琳|许仲琳[Xu3 Zhong4 lin2] (c. 1567–c. 1620), Ming novelist, to whom the fantasy novel Investiture of the Gods 封神演義|封神演义[Feng1 shen2 Yan3 yi4] is attributed, together with Lu Xixing 陸西星|陆西星[Lu4 Xi1 xing1]
陈伯达	chen	da	Chen Boda (1904-1989), communist party theorist, interpreter of Maoism
陈元光	chen	guang	Chen Yuanguang (657-711), Tang dynasty general with posthumous title 開漳聖王|开漳圣王[Kai1 zhang1 sheng4 wang2], i.e. Sacred King, founder of Zhangzhou 漳州[Zhang1 zhou1], Fujian
陈其迈	chen	mai	Chen Chi-mai (1964-), Taiwanese DPP politician, vice premier of the Republic of China (2019-)
陈再道	chen	dao	Chen Zaidao (1909-1993), general in the People's Liberation Army
陈冠希	chen	xi	Edison Chen (1980–), Hong Kong Canadian actor, singer and fashion entrepreneur
陈凯歌	chen	ge	Chen Kaige (1952-), Chinese movie director
陈列台	chen	tai	display stand; showcase stall
陈列室	chen	shi	exhibition room; display room
陈天华	chen	hua	Chen Tianhua (1875-1905), anti-Qing revolutionary from Hunan, drowned himself in Japan in 1905
陈奕迅	chen	xun	Eason Chan (1974-), Hong Kong pop singer and actor
陈子昂	chen	ang	Chen Zi'ang (c. 661-702), Tang dynasty poet
陈巴尔虎旗	chen	qi	Old Barag Banner in Hulunbuir 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
陈希同	chen	tong	Chen Xitong (1930–2013), mayor of Beijing at the time of 4th June 1989 Tiananmen incident
陈庆炎	chen	yan	Tony Tan (1940-), president of Singapore 2011-2017
陈建仁	chen	ren	Chen Chien-jen (1951-), Taiwanese politician, vice president of the Republic of China 2016-2020
陈德良	chen	liang	Tran Duc Luong (1937-), former president of Vietnam
陈恭尹	chen	yin	Chen Gongyin (1631-1700), early Qing dynasty poet
陈方安生	chen	sheng	Anson Chan (1940-), chief secretary for administration, Hong Kong (1997-2001)
陈景润	chen	run	Chen Jingrun (1933-1996) Chinese number theorist
陈木胜	chen	sheng	Benny Chan (Hong Kong film director)
陈桥兵变	chen	bian	the military revolt of 960 that led Zhao Kuangyin 趙匡胤|赵匡胤 to found the Song dynasty
陈水扁	chen	bian	Chen Shui-Bian (1950-), Taiwanese DPP 民進黨|民进党 politician, president of the Republic of China 2000-2008
陈炯明	chen	ming	Chen Jiongming (1878-1933), a leading warlord of Guangdong faction, defeated in 1925 and fled to Hong Kong
陈独秀	chen	xiu	Chen Duxiu (1879-1942), co-founder of the Chinese Communist Party in 1921
陈省身	chen	shen	Shiing-Shen Chern (1911-2004), Chinese-American mathematician
陈纳德	chen	de	Claire Lee Chennault (1890–1958), American military aviator and brigadier general, commander of the Flying Tigers 飛虎隊|飞虎队[Fei1 hu3 dui4], a volunteer group that assisted China in resisting Japanese forces during World War II
陈胜吴广起义	chen	yi	Chen Sheng Wu Guang Uprising (209 BC), near the end of the Qin dynasty
陈规旧习	chen	xi	old rules and customs
陈规陋习	chen	xi	(idiom) outmoded conventions; old-fashioned ways
陈词滥调	chen	diao	cliché; commonplace; truism
陈谷子烂芝麻	chen	ma	lit. stale grain, overcooked sesame (idiom); fig. the same boring old gossip
陈述书	chen	shu	written statement; written declaration
陈述句	chen	ju	declarative sentence
陈陈相因	chen	yin	(idiom) to slavishly follow old patterns; to stick to outdated conventions
陈香梅	chen	mei	Chen Xiangmei (1925–2018), also known as Anna Chennault, Chinese-American writer and Republican politician, wife of Claire Lee Chennault 陳納德|陈纳德[Chen2 na4 de2]
陌生人	mo	ren	stranger
陌路人	mo	ren	stranger
降临节	jiang	jie	Advent (Christian season preceding Christmas)
降半旗	jiang	qi	to fly a flag at half-mast as a sign of mourning
降压药	jiang	yao	blood pressure medication; antihypertensive drug
降水量	jiang	liang	precipitation (meteorology); measured quantity of rain
降温费	jiang	fei	extra pay for hot weather
降结肠	jiang	chang	descending colon (anatomy); third section of large intestine
降落伞	jiang	san	parachute
降血压药	jiang	yao	antihypertensive drug
降血钙素	jiang	su	calcitonin
降雨量	jiang	liang	precipitation; quantity of rainfall
降龙伏虎	xiang	hu	to vanquish dragons and tigers (idiom)
限制级	xian	ji	R-rated
限制酶	xian	mei	restriction enzyme
限制酶图谱	xian	pu	restriction mapping (in genomics); restriction pattern
限定词	xian	ci	determiner (in grammar, i.e. article, demonstrative, possessive pronoun, noun genitive etc)
限时信	xian	xin	mail to be delivered by a specified time
限界线	xian	xian	boundary; dividing line
限高架	xian	jia	height restriction barrier
陕州区	shan	qu	Shanzhou, a district of Sanmenxia City 三門峽市|三门峡市[San1 men2 xia2 Shi4], Henan
陕甘宁	shan	ning	Shaanxi, Gansu and Ningxia provinces
陕西大地震	shan	zhen	the great Shaanxi earthquake of 2nd February 1556 that killed 830,000 people
陕西师范大学	shan	xue	Shaanxi Normal University
陕西省	shan	sheng	Shaanxi Province, capital Xi'an 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4] (short name 陝|陕[Shan3] or 秦[Qin2])
陕西科技大学	shan	xue	Shaanxi University of Science and Technology
陕飞集团	shan	tuan	Shaanxi Aircraft Corporation (state-owned enterprise)
陟罚臧否	zhi	pi	(idiom) to evaluate the merits and demerits of; (esp. in formal, ethical or societal contexts) to critique; to judge
除不尽	chu	jin	indivisible (math)
除垢剂	chu	ji	detergent
除尘机	chu	ji	dusting machine; dust filter
除恶务尽	chu	jin	to eradicate evil completely (idiom); thorough in rooting out wickedness
除旧布新	chu	xin	to get rid of the old to bring in the new (idiom); to innovate
除旧更新	chu	xin	to replace the old with new (idiom)
除暴安良	chu	liang	to root out the strong and give people peace (idiom); to rob the rich and give to the poor
除此之外	chu	wai	apart from this; in addition to this
除湿器	chu	qi	dehumidifier
除湿机	chu	ji	dehumidifier
除罪化	chu	hua	to decriminalize
除臭剂	chu	ji	deodorant
除草剂	chu	ji	weed killer; herbicide
陨石坑	yun	keng	meteorite impact crater
陨石雨	yun	yu	meteorite shower
险象环生	xian	sheng	dangers spring up all around (idiom); surrounded by perils
陪产假	pei	jia	paternity leave
陪唱女	pei	nv	KTV hostess
陪唱小姐	pei	jie	KTV hostess
陪审员	pei	yuan	juror
陪审团	pei	tuan	jury
陪葬品	pei	pin	funerary objects (items buried together with the dead)
陵城区	ling	qu	Lingcheng, a district of Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
陵川县	ling	xian	Lingchuan, a county in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi
陵水县	ling	xian	Lingshui Lizu Autonomous County, Hainan; abbr. for 陵水黎族自治縣|陵水黎族自治县[Ling2 shui3 Li2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
陵水黎族自治县	ling	xian	Lingshui Lizu Autonomous County, Hainan
陶冶情操	tao	cao	to cultivate one's mind; to build character
陶哲轩	tao	xuan	Terence Tao, Chinese-Australian mathematician, Fields medalist in 2006
陶宗仪	tao	yi	Tao Zongyi (c. 1329-1410), Yuan dynasty scholar
陶渊明	tao	ming	Tao Yuanming (c. 365-427), Jin dynasty writer and poet
陶瓷器	tao	qi	pottery; chinaware
陶行知	tao	zhi	Tao Xingzhi (1891-1946), Chinese educator and reformer
陷于瘫痪	xian	huan	to be paralyzed; to come to a standstill
陷入牢笼	xian	long	to fall into a trap; ensnared
陷落带	xian	dai	area of subsidence
隆乳手术	long	shu	breast enlargement operation; boob job
隆化县	long	xian	Longhua, a county in Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
隆回县	long	xian	Longhui, a county in Shaoyang City 邵陽市|邵阳市[Shao4 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
隆子县	long	xian	Lhünzê, a county in Shannan City 山南市[Shan1 nan2 Shi4], Tibet
隆安县	long	xian	Long'an, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
隆尧县	long	xian	Longyao, a county in Xingtai City 邢臺市|邢台市[Xing2 tai2 Shi4], Hebei
隆德县	long	xian	Longde, a county in Guyuan City 固原市[Gu4 yuan2 Shi4], Ningxia
隆情厚谊	long	yi	profound love, generous friendship (idiom)
隆昌市	long	shi	Longchang, a county-level city in Neijiang City 內江市|内江市[Nei4 jiang1 Shi4], Sichuan
隆林县	long	xian	see 隆林各族自治縣|隆林各族自治县[Long2 lin2 Ge4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
隆林各族自治县	long	xian	Longlin Various Nationalities Autonomous County, in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
隆阳区	long	qu	Longyang, a district of Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
隆隆声	long	sheng	rumble (sound of thunder or gunfire)
隋唐演义	sui	yi	Dramatized History of Sui and Tang, novel by Qing dynasty author Chu Renhuo 褚人獲|褚人获[Chu3 Ren2 huo4]
隋文帝	sui	di	Wendi (541-604), posthumous name of the first Sui emperor, reigned 581-604
隋炀帝	sui	di	Emperor Yang of Sui (569-618), said to have murdered his father and brother to seize the throne, reigned 604-618
随之而后	sui	hou	from that; following from that; after that
随信附上	sui	shang	enclosed with (this) letter
随口胡诌	sui	zhou	to talk random nonsense (idiom); to say whatever comes into one's head
随叫随到	sui	dao	to be available at any time; to be on call
随堂测验	sui	yan	quiz (student assessment)
随声附和	sui	he	to parrot other people's words (idiom); to chime in with others
随处可见	sui	jian	can be seen everywhere
随大流	sui	liu	to follow the crowd; going with the tide
随大溜	sui	liu	to follow the crowd; going with the tide
随州市	sui	shi	Suizhou, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
随心所欲	sui	yu	(idiom) to follow one's heart's desires; to do as one pleases
随想曲	sui	qu	(music) capriccio
随插即用	sui	yong	plug and play (computing)
随时待命	sui	ming	on call; always available; ready at all times
随时随地	sui	di	anytime and anywhere
随机变数	sui	shu	(math.) random variable
随机存取	sui	qu	random access (memory)
随机存取存储器	sui	qi	random access memory (RAM)
随机存取记忆体	sui	ti	random access memory (RAM)
随机应变	sui	bian	to change according to the situation (idiom); pragmatic
随机性	sui	xing	randomness; stochasticity
随机效应	sui	ying	stochastic effect
随机数	sui	shu	random number
随机时间	sui	jian	random period of time; random interval
随波逐流	sui	liu	to drift with the waves and go with the flow (idiom); to follow the crowd blindly
随葬品	sui	pin	burial goods; burial gifts
随行人员	sui	yuan	entourage; retinue
随行就市	sui	shi	(of a price) to fluctuate according to the market; to sell at the market price
随身听	sui	ting	Walkman (trademark); portable stereo
随身碟	sui	die	(Tw) USB flash drive; thumb drive
随身道具	sui	ju	(theater) personal prop (spectacles, fan etc)
随遇而安	sui	an	at home wherever one is (idiom); ready to adapt; flexible; to accept circumstances with good will
随风倒	sui	dao	to bend with the wind
随风倒柳	sui	liu	lit. a willow that bends with the wind; one with no fixed principles (idiom)
随风倒舵	sui	duo	to trim one's sails with the wind; to adopt different attitude depending on the circumstances (idiom)
隐修士	yin	shi	monk (Christian)
隐修院	yin	yuan	monastery (Christian); abbey
隐写术	yin	shu	steganography
隐函数	yin	shu	implicit function
隐名埋姓	yin	xing	see 隱姓埋名|隐姓埋名[yin3 xing4 mai2 ming2]
隐君子	yin	zi	(literary) hermit sage; heavy smoker; drug addict (pun involving the homophonous 癮君子|瘾君子[yin3 jun1 zi3])
隐姓埋名	yin	ming	to conceal one's identity; living incognito
隐形眼镜	yin	jing	contact lens; CL:隻|只[zhi1],副[fu4]
隐忍不发	yin	fa	to keep one's emotions inside oneself; to restrain one's emotions
隐忍不言	yin	yan	to keep one's emotions inside oneself; to restrain one's emotions
隐性基因	yin	yin	recessive gene
隐恶扬善	yin	shan	(idiom) to highlight sb's good points but omit to mention their faults
隐情不报	yin	bao	not to report sth; to keep sth secret
隐显目标	yin	biao	intermittent target
隐栖动物学	yin	xue	cryptozoology
隐生宙	yin	zhou	Cryptozoic; geological eon before the appearance of abundant fossils; hidden life, as opposed to Phanerozoic
隐病不报	yin	bao	not to tell others of one's illness
隐瞒不报	yin	bao	to cover up (a matter that should be reported to the authorities)
隐私权	yin	quan	privacy right
隐秘难言	yin	yan	too embarrassing to mention
隐约其辞	yin	ci	equivocal speech; to use vague or ambiguous language
隐翅虫	yin	chong	rove beetle
隐花植物	yin	wu	Cryptogamae; cryptogamous plant (botany); plants such as algae 藻類|藻类[zao3 lei4], moss 苔蘚|苔藓[tai2 xian3] and fern 蕨類|蕨类[jue2 lei4] that reproduce by spores 孢子[bao1 zi3] in place of flowers
隐藏处	yin	chu	shelter; hiding place
隐讳号	yin	hao	cross symbol (×), used to replace a character one does not wish to display
隐身草	yin	cao	legendary grass conferring invisibility; fig. to conceal oneself or one's plans
隐身草儿	yin	r	erhua variant of 隱身草|隐身草[yin3 shen1 cao3]
隐迹埋名	yin	ming	to live incognito
隐隐作痛	yin	tong	to ache dully
隐隐约约	yin	yue	(idiom) vaguely; faintly; indistinctly
隐隐绰绰	yin	chuo	faint; indistinct
隔三岔五	ge	wu	variant of 隔三差五[ge2 san1 cha4 wu3]
隔三差五	ge	wu	(idiom) every few days; every once in a while
隔墙有耳	ge	er	the walls have ears (idiom)
隔壁有耳	ge	er	walls have ears
隔壁老王	ge	wang	Mr Wang from next door (term used jocularly to refer to a neighbor who is supposedly sleeping with one's wife)
隔壁邻居	ge	ju	next-door neighbor
隔岸观火	ge	huo	to watch the fires burning across the river; to delay entering the fray until all others have been exhausted by fighting amongst themselves (idiom)
隔年皇历	ge	li	lit. almanac from years back (idiom); obsolete practice; old-fashioned principle
隔断板	ge	ban	partition board
隔油池	ge	chi	grease trap
隔离霜	ge	shuang	pre-makeup cream; makeup base; foundation primer
隔空喊话	ge	hua	to converse with sb by shouting from some distance away; (fig.) to say sth intended for the ears of sb who is not in one's presence (often, by making a public statement or by posting online)
隔行如隔山	ge	shan	different trades, worlds apart (idiom); to sb outside the profession, it is a closed book
隔行扫描	ge	miao	interlaced scanning
隔靴搔痒	ge	yang	lit. to scratch the outside of the boot (idiom); fig. beside the point; ineffectual
隔音符号	ge	hao	apostrophe, as used in pinyin orthography (i.e. to mark a boundary between two syllables, as in "dàng'àn" 檔案|档案[dang4 an4])
障眼法	zhang	fa	diversionary tactic; smokescreen
障碍性贫血	zhang	xue	aplastic anemia (med.)
障碍滑雪	zhang	xue	(snow skiing) slalom
障碍物	zhang	wu	obstacle; hindrance
障碍跑	zhang	pao	steeplechase (athletics)
难上加难	nan	nan	extremely difficult; even more difficult
难上难	nan	nan	extremely difficult; even more difficult
难不倒	nan	dao	not to pose a problem for sb; cannot stump sb
难不成	nan	cheng	Is it possible that ... ?
难为情	nan	qing	embarrassed
难乎为继	nan	ji	see 難以為繼|难以为继[nan2 yi3 wei2 ji4]
难于接近	nan	jin	(of people) difficult to approach; inaccessible
难于登天	nan	tian	harder than climbing to heaven (idiom)
难以为继	nan	ji	(idiom) difficult to carry on; unsustainable
难以启齿	nan	chi	to be too embarrassed to mention sth (idiom); to find it hard to speak about sth
难以实现	nan	xian	hard to accomplish; difficult to achieve
难以应付	nan	fu	hard to deal with; hard to handle
难以忍受	nan	shou	hard to endure; unbearable
难以捉摸	nan	mo	elusive; hard to pin down; enigmatic
难以撼动	nan	dong	unsusceptible to change; deeply entrenched
难以理解	nan	jie	hard to understand; incomprehensible
难以置信	nan	xin	(idiom) hard to believe; incredible
难以自已	nan	yi	cannot control oneself (idiom); to be beside oneself
难伺候	nan	hou	(coll.) hard to please; high-maintenance
难兄难弟	nan	di	(idiom) companions in hardship; fellow sufferers
难分难舍	nan	she	loath to part (idiom); emotionally close and unwilling to separate
难分难解	nan	jie	to become caught up in an irresolvable situation (idiom)
难得一见	nan	jian	rarely seen
难民营	nan	ying	refugee camp
难能可贵	nan	gui	rare and precious; valuable; remarkable
难舍难分	nan	fen	loath to part (idiom); emotionally close and unwilling to separate
难舍难离	nan	li	loath to part (idiom); emotionally close and unwilling to separate
难解难分	nan	fen	hard to untie, hard to separate (idiom); inextricably involved; locked in battle
难言之隐	nan	yin	a hidden trouble hard to mention (idiom); sth too embarrassing to mention; an embarrassing illness
难辞其咎	nan	jiu	cannot escape censure (idiom); has to bear the blame
难逃法网	nan	wang	It is hard to escape the dragnet of the law; the long arm of the law
雀儿喜	que	xi	(Tw) (name) Chelsea
雀儿山	que	shan	Chola Mountains in Sichuan
雀形目	que	mu	order Passeriformes (perching birds)
雀盲眼	qiao	yan	night blindness (dialect)
雁塔区	yan	qu	Yanta, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
雁山区	yan	qu	Yanshan, a district of Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
雁峰区	yan	qu	Yanfeng, a district of Hengyang City 衡陽市|衡阳市[Heng2 yang2 Shi4], Hunan
雁杳鱼沉	yan	chen	without news from sb (idiom)
雁江区	yan	qu	Yanjiang, a district of Ziyang City 資陽市|资阳市[Zi1 yang2 Shi4], Sichuan
雁荡山	yan	shan	Yandang mountains, famous scenic area in southeast Zhejiang
雁过拔毛	yan	mao	lit. to grab feathers from a flying goose; fig. to seize any opportunity; pragmatic
雄安新区	xiong	qu	Xiong'an New Area, a state-level new area in the Baoding area of Hebei, established in 2017
雄心勃勃	xiong	bo	aggressive and grand (idiom); ambitious; pushy
雄性激素	xiong	su	male hormone; testosterone
雄才大略	xiong	lve	great skill and strategy
雄激素	xiong	su	male hormone; testosterone
雄赳赳	xiong	jiu	valiantly; gallantly
雄辩家	xiong	jia	orator
雄配子	xiong	zi	male gamete; sperm cell
雄酯酮	xiong	tong	male hormone; testosterone
雄黄酒	xiong	jiu	realgar wine (traditionally drunk during the Dragon Boat Festival 端午節|端午节[Duan1 wu3 jie2])
雅人深致	ya	zhi	refined pleasure of poetic minds
雅俗共赏	ya	shang	can be enjoyed by scholars and lay-people alike (idiom)
雅典卫城	ya	cheng	the Acropolis (Athens)
雅典娜	ya	na	Athena
雅典的泰门	ya	men	Timon of Athens, 1607 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚[Sha1 shi4 bi3 ya4]
雅利安	ya	an	Aryan
雅加达	ya	da	Jakarta, capital of Indonesia
雅司病	ya	bing	yaws (infectious tropical disease)
雅各书	ya	shu	Epistle of St James (in New Testament)
雅各伯	ya	bo	Jacob (name); Saint James
雅各宾派	ya	pai	Jacobin club, French revolutionary party that played a leading role in the reign of terror 1791-1794
雅安市	ya	shi	Ya'an, prefecture-level city in Sichuan Province 四川省[Si4 chuan1 Sheng3]
雅尔塔	ya	ta	Yalta
雅恩德	ya	de	Yaounde, capital of Cameroon
雅拉神山	ya	shan	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅拉雪山	ya	shan	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅拉香波神山	ya	shan	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅拉香波雪山	ya	shan	Mt Yarla Shampo, in Dawu County 道孚縣|道孚县[Dao4 fu2 xian4], Garze Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Sichuan
雅江县	ya	xian	Yajiang, a county in Garzê Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 甘孜藏族自治州[Gan1 zi1 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
雅法港	ya	gang	Jaffa (Israel)
雅温得	ya	de	Yaoundé, capital city of Cameroon
雅皮士	ya	shi	yuppie (loanword); young urban professional, 1980s slang
雅砻江	ya	jiang	Yalong river of Tibet and Sichuan
雅礼协会	ya	hui	Yale-China Association, independent organization founded in 1901
雅穆索戈	ya	ge	Yamoussoukro, capital of Ivory Coast (Tw)
雅罗鱼	ya	yu	dace
雅美族	ya	zu	Tao or Yami, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
雅诺什	ya	shi	János (Hungarian name)
雅马哈	ya	ha	Yamaha
雅鲁藏布大峡谷	ya	gu	Great Canyon of Yarlung Tsangpo-Brahmaputra (through the southeast Himalayas, from Tibet to Assam and Bangladesh)
雅鲁藏布江	ya	jiang	Yarlung Tsangpo River, Tibet
集中器	ji	qi	concentrator
集中托运	ji	yun	consolidated cargo (transportation)
集中营	ji	ying	concentration camp
集体主义	ji	yi	collectivism
集体化	ji	hua	collectivization; to collectivize
集体坟墓	ji	mu	mass grave
集体安全条约组织	ji	zhi	Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO)
集体强奸	ji	jian	gang rape
集体户	ji	hu	collective; joint household
集体经济	ji	ji	collective economy
集体行走	ji	zou	pedestrian group (e.g. of tourists etc)
集体诉讼	ji	song	(law) class action
集体防护	ji	hu	collective protection
集合体	ji	ti	aggregate; ensemble; bundle
集合名词	ji	ci	collective noun (linguistics)
集合论	ji	lun	set theory (math.)
集团军	ji	jun	army grouping; collective army
集宁区	ji	qu	Jining, a district of Ulanqab City 烏蘭察布市|乌兰察布市[Wu1 lan2 cha2 bu4 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
集安市	ji	shi	Ji'an, a county-level city in Tonghua City 通化市[Tong1 hua4 Shi4], Jilin
集市贸易	ji	yi	market trade
集思广益	ji	yi	collecting opinions is of wide benefit (idiom); to pool wisdom for mutual benefit; to profit from widespread suggestions
集成显卡	ji	ka	integrated GPU (abbr. to 集顯|集显[ji2 xian3])
集成电路	ji	lu	integrated circuit
集散地	ji	di	distribution center
集束炸弹	ji	dan	cluster bomb
集油箱	ji	xiang	oil sump
集电弓	ji	gong	pantograph (transportation)
集电杆	ji	gan	electric trolley pole
集线器	ji	qi	hub (network)
集美区	ji	qu	Jimei, a district of Xiamen City 廈門市|厦门市[Xia4 men2 Shi4], Fujian
集腋成裘	ji	qiu	many hairs make a fur coat (idiom); many small contributions add up to sth big; many a mickle makes a muckle
集装箱	ji	xiang	container (for shipping)
集装箱船	ji	chuan	container ship
集贤县	ji	xian	Jixian, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
集资额	ji	e	sum of money raised (in a share subscription)
集邮册	ji	ce	stamp album; CL:本[ben3]
集邮簿	ji	bu	stamp album; CL:本[ben3],冊|册[ce4],部[bu4]
雇佣兵	gu	bing	(military) mercenary
雌三醇	ci	chun	estriol
雌性接口	ci	kou	female connector
雌性激素	ci	su	estrogen
雌激素	ci	su	estrogen
雌雄同体	ci	ti	hermaphrodite
雌雄同体人	ci	ren	a hermaphrodite
雌雄同体性	ci	xing	hermaphroditism
雌雄异色	ci	se	sexual coloration
雍和宫	yong	gong	Yonghe Temple; Lama Temple (Beijing)
雍容大度	yong	du	generous
雏形产品	chu	pin	prototype
雏形土	chu	tu	cambisol (soil taxonomy)
雏菊花环	chu	huan	daisy chain; chain sinnet
雕具座	diao	zuo	Caelum (constellation)
雕刻品	diao	pin	sculpture
雕刻家	diao	jia	sculptor
雕栏玉砌	diao	qi	(lit.) carved railings and jade steps (idiom); (fig.) richly ornamented (building)
雕梁画栋	diao	dong	richly ornamented (building)
雕楹碧槛	diao	kan	carved pillar, jade doorsill (idiom); heavily decorated environment
雕虫小技	diao	ji	insignificant talent; skill of no high order; minor accomplishment
雕虫篆刻	diao	ke	literary trifles; minor skill
雨刮器	yu	qi	windshield wiper
雨后春笋	yu	sun	lit. after rain, the spring bamboo (idiom); fig. rapid new growth; many new things emerge in rapid succession
雨城区	yu	qu	Yucheng, a district of Ya'an City 雅安市[Ya3 an1 Shi4], Sichuan
雨夹雪	yu	xue	sleet; mixture of snow and rain
雨女无瓜	yu	gua	(neologism) (slang) it's none of your business (imitation of an accented pronunciation of 與你無關|与你无关[yu3 ni3 wu2 guan1])
雨层云	yu	yun	nimbostratus; stratus rain cloud
雨山区	yu	qu	Yushan, a district of Ma'anshan City 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
雨泽下注	yu	zhu	rainfall
雨湖区	yu	qu	Yuhu, a district of Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
雨花区	yu	qu	Yuhua, a district of Changsha City 長沙市|长沙市[Chang2 sha1 Shi4], Hunan
雨花台	yu	tai	see 雨花臺區|雨花台区[Yu3 hua1 tai2 Qu1]
雨花台区	yu	qu	Yuhuatai, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
雨过天晴	yu	qing	sky clears after rain; new hopes after a disastrous period (idiom); every cloud has a silver lining (idiom)
雨过天青	yu	qing	sky clears after rain; new hopes after a disastrous period (idiom); every cloud has a silver lining (idiom)
雪上加霜	xue	shuang	(idiom) to make matters even worse; to add insult to injury
雪中送炭	xue	tan	lit. to send charcoal in snowy weather (idiom); fig. to provide help in sb's hour of need
雪佛兰	xue	lan	Chevrolet
雪佛莱	xue	lai	Chevrolet, US car make
雪佛龙	xue	long	Chevron (oil company)
雪佛龙公司	xue	si	Chevron Corporation
雪佛龙石油公司	xue	si	Chevron Corporation
雪兰莪	xue	e	Selangor (Malaysia)
雪利酒	xue	jiu	(loanword) sherry
雪地车	xue	che	snowmobile
雪地靴	xue	xue	ugg boots
雪山太子	xue	zi	Meili Snow Mountains in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan; also written 梅里雪山[Mei2 li3 Xue3 shan1]
雪山狮子旗	xue	qi	Snow lion banner, banned flag of Tibetan independence movement, featuring mythological Snow Leopard
雪岳山	xue	shan	Seoraksan, mountain near Sokcho, South Korea
雪巴人	xue	ren	(Tw) Sherpa
雪橇犬	xue	quan	sled dog
雪泥鸿爪	xue	zhao	a goose's footprint in the snow; vestiges of the past (idiom); the fleeting nature of human life (idiom)
雪犁运动	xue	dong	(sports) skibobbing
雪白菇	xue	gu	white beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessellatus, cultivated white variety)
雪糕筒	xue	tong	(Cantonese-influenced Mandarin) (coll.) traffic cone
雪纳瑞	xue	rui	schnauzer (dog)
雪花膏	xue	gao	vanishing cream; cold cream (makeup)
雪茄头	xue	tou	cigarette lighter plug (inserted in a car's cigarette lighter socket to draw power)
雪茄烟	xue	yan	cigar
雪菲尔德	xue	de	Sheffield (City in England)
雪里红	xue	hong	variant of 雪裡蕻|雪里蕻[xue3 li3 hong2]
雪里蕻	xue	hong	potherb mustard (Brassica juncea var. crispifolia)
雪铁龙	xue	long	Citroën (French car manufacturer)
雪顿节	xue	jie	Lhasa Shoton festival or yogurt banquet, from first of July of Tibetan calendar
零八宪章	ling	zhang	Charter 08, PRC pro-democracy petition of December 2008
零功率堆	ling	dui	zero power reactor
零号病人	ling	ren	(epidemiology) patient zero
零和博弈	ling	yi	zero-sum game (economics)
零售商	ling	shang	retailer; shopkeeper; retail merchant
零售店	ling	dian	shop; retail store
零基础	ling	chu	no prior study (in an area of learning)
零声母	ling	mu	(Chinese linguistics) zero initial (the initial of a syllable that does not begin with a consonant)
零备件	ling	jian	spare part; component
零容忍	ling	ren	zero tolerance
零工经济	ling	ji	gig economy
零废弃	ling	qi	zero waste
零打碎敲	ling	qiao	to do things in bits and pieces (idiom); piecemeal work
零敲碎打	ling	da	to do things in bits and pieces (idiom); piecemeal work
零日漏洞	ling	dong	zero-day vulnerability (computing)
零曲率	ling	lv	(math.) zero curvature
零杂儿	ling	r	erhua variant of 零雜|零杂[ling2 za2]
零点五	ling	wu	0.5; a half
零点定理	ling	li	Hilbert's zeros theorem (math.); Nullstellensatz
零点能	ling	neng	zero-point energy (quantum mechanical vacuum effect)
零用金	ling	jin	petty cash
零用钱	ling	qian	pocket money; allowance; spending money
零等待状态	ling	tai	zero wait state (computing)
零缺点	ling	dian	zero defect; faultless; impeccable
零花钱	ling	qian	pocket money; allowance
零起点	ling	dian	from zero; from scratch; beginners' (course)
零距离	ling	li	zero distance; face-to-face
零部件	ling	jian	spare part; component
零陵区	ling	qu	Lingling, a district of Yongzhou City 永州市[Yong3 zhou1 Shi4], Hunan
零零星星	ling	xing	odd; piecemeal; fragmentary
雷亚尔	lei	er	real (Brazilian currency) (loanword)
雷克斯	lei	si	Rex (name)
雷克斯暴龙	lei	long	Tyrannosaurus rex
雷克萨斯	lei	si	Lexus; see also 凌志[Ling2 zhi4]
雷克雅未克	lei	ke	Reykjavik, capital of Iceland
雷克雅维克	lei	ke	Reykjavik, capital of Iceland (Tw)
雷公打豆腐	lei	fu	the God of Thunder strikes bean curd; fig. to bully the weakest person; to pick on an easy target
雷公打豆腐拣软的欺	lei	qi	the God of Thunder strikes bean curd, a bully picks the weakest person; to pick on an easy target
雷厉风行	lei	xing	pass like thunder and move like the wind (idiom); swift and decisive reaction
雷司令	lei	ling	Riesling (grape type)
雷声大雨点小	lei	xiao	lit. loud thunder, but only tiny drops of rain (idiom); fig. a lot of talk, but no action
雷大雨小	lei	xiao	lit. much thunder but little rain; fig. a lot of talk but little action; his bark is worse than his bite
雷姆斯汀	lei	ting	variant of 德國戰車|德国战车, Rammstein (German metal band)
雷射笔	lei	bi	laser pointer (Tw)
雷山县	lei	xian	Leishan, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
雷峰塔	lei	ta	Leifeng Pagoda, by West Lake until it was destroyed (also from Madam White Snake)
雷州半岛	lei	dao	Leizhou Peninsula
雷州市	lei	shi	Leizhou, a county-level city in Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
雷扎耶湖	lei	hu	Lake Urmia, northwest Iran, a major salt lake; formerly called lake Rezaiyeh
雷打不动	lei	dong	not shaken by thunder (idiom); the arrangements are unalterable; to adhere rigidly to regulations; will go ahead whatever happens (of an arrangement or plan)
雷日纳	lei	na	Regina (name); Regina, city in Brazil
雷曼兄弟	lei	di	Lehman Brothers, investment bank
雷朗族	lei	zu	Luilang, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
雷波县	lei	xian	Leibo, a county in Liangshan Yi Autonomous Prefecture 涼山彝族自治州|凉山彝族自治州[Liang2 shan1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
雷电计	lei	ji	brontometer; apparatus to measure thunder and lightning
雷神之锤	lei	chui	Quake (video game series)
雷神公司	lei	si	Raytheon Company, US defense contractor
雷蒙德	lei	de	Raymond (name)
雷诺数	lei	shu	Reynolds number (ratio of inertial forces to viscous forces in fluid mechanics)
雷诺阿	lei	a	Pierre-Auguste Renoir (1841–1919), French Impressionist painter
雷达天线	lei	xian	radar antenna
雷阵雨	lei	yu	thundershower
雷阿尔城	lei	cheng	Ciudad Real
雾化器	wu	qi	nebulizer; atomizer
雾化机	wu	ji	nebulizer; atomizer
雾炮车	wu	che	mist cannon truck; dust suppression truck
雾茫茫	wu	mang	foggy
雾蒙蒙	wu	meng	foggy; misty; hazy
雾里看花	wu	hua	lit. to look at flowers in the fog (idiom); fig. blurred vision
雾面屏	wu	ping	(electronics) matte display screen; anti-glare screen
需求层次理论	xu	lun	(Maslow's) hierarchy of needs (psychology)
需要是发明之母	xu	mu	Necessity is the mother of invention (European proverb).
霁月光风	ji	feng	see 光風霽月|光风霁月[guang1 feng1 ji4 yue4]
霄壤之别	xiao	bie	see 天壤之別|天壤之别[tian1 rang3 zhi1 bie2]
震动棒	zhen	bang	vibrator (sex toy)
震古烁今	zhen	jin	(lit.) to astonish the ancients and dazzle contemporaries (idiom); (fig.) to be earthshaking
震天价响	zhen	xiang	an earth-shaking noise (idiom)
震天动地	zhen	di	to shake heaven and earth (idiom)
震惊中外	zhen	wai	to shock the whole world
震撼弹	zhen	dan	stun grenade; (Tw) (fig.) sth that produces shockwaves; bombshell (revelation)
震撼性	zhen	xing	shocking; stunning; sensational
震旦纪	zhen	ji	Sinian (c. 800-542 million years ago), late phase of pre-Cambrian geological era
震旦鸦雀	zhen	que	(bird species of China) reed parrotbill (Paradoxornis heudei)
震波图	zhen	tu	seismogram
震源机制	zhen	zhi	(seismology) focal mechanism
震眩弹	zhen	dan	stun grenade
震耳欲聋	zhen	long	ear-splitting (idiom); deafening
震颤素	zhen	su	tremorine (drug inducing shivering)
震颤麻痹	zhen	bi	palsy; trembling paralysis; used for Parkinson's disease 帕金森病[Pa4 jin1 sen1 bing4]
霉干菜	mei	cai	variant of 梅乾菜|梅干菜[mei2 gan1 cai4]
霉浆菌肺炎	mei	yan	mycoplasma pneumonia
霉菌毒素	mei	su	mycotoxin
霉豆腐	mei	fu	fermented tofu
霍乱弧菌	huo	jun	cholera bacterium (Vibrio cholerae)
霍乱毒素	huo	su	cholera toxin
霍克松	huo	song	Hokksund (city in Buskerud, Norway)
霍克海姆	huo	mu	Horkheimer (philosopher)
霍加狓	huo	pi	variant of 㺢㹢狓[huo4 jia1 pi2]
霍华德	huo	de	(name) Howard
霍城县	huo	xian	Huocheng, a county in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
霍夫曼	huo	man	Hofmann or Hoffman (name); August Wilhelm von Hofmann (1818-1892), German chemist; Dustin Hoffman (1937-), US film actor
霍尔姆斯	huo	si	Holmes (name)
霍尔布鲁克	huo	ke	Holbrook (name); Richard C.A. Holbrooke (1941-2010), US diplomat, influential in brokering 1995 Dayton Bosnian peace deal, US special envoy to Afghanistan and Pakistan from 2009
霍尔木兹	huo	zi	Hormuz, Iran, at the mouth of the Persian Gulf
霍尔木兹岛	huo	dao	Hormuz Island, Iran, at the mouth of the Persian Gulf
霍尔木兹海峡	huo	xia	Strait of Hormuz
霍尔果斯	huo	si	see 霍爾果斯市|霍尔果斯市[Huo4 er3 guo3 si1 Shi4]
霍尔果斯市	huo	shi	Khorgos, a county-level city in Ili Kazakh Autonomous Prefecture 伊犁哈薩克自治州|伊犁哈萨克自治州[Yi1 li2 Ha1 sa4 ke4 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
霍尔滕	huo	teng	Horten (city in Vestfold, Norway)
霍尼亚拉	huo	la	Honiara, capital of Solomon Islands
霍山县	huo	xian	Huoshan, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
霍州市	huo	shi	Huozhou, a county-level city in Linfen City 臨汾市|临汾市[Lin2 fen2 Shi4], Shanxi
霍巴特	huo	te	Hobart, capital of Tasmania (Australia)
霍布斯	huo	si	Hobbs (name)
霍普金斯大学	huo	xue	Johns Hopkins University
霍林郭勒	huo	le	see 霍林郭勒市[Huo4 lin2 guo1 le4 Shi4]
霍林郭勒市	huo	shi	Holingol, a county-level city in Tongliao City 通遼市|通辽市[Tong1 liao2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
霍格沃茨	huo	ci	Hogwarts (Harry Potter)
霍比特人	huo	ren	The Hobbit by J.R.R. Tolkien 托爾金|托尔金
霍氏旋木雀	huo	que	(bird species of China) Hodgson's treecreeper (Certhia hodgsoni)
霍氏鹰鹃	huo	juan	(bird species of China) Hodgson's hawk-cuckoo (Hierococcyx nisicolor)
霍洛维茨	huo	ci	Horowitz (name)
霍然而愈	huo	yu	to recover speedily (idiom); to get better quickly
霍英东	huo	dong	Henry Ying-tung Fok (1913-2006), Hong Kong tycoon with close PRC connections
霍邱县	huo	xian	Huoqiu, a county in Lu'an City 六安市[Lu4 an1 Shi4], Anhui
霍金斯	huo	si	Hawkins (name); also written 霍金
霎时间	sha	jian	in a split second
霓虹国	ni	guo	(slang) Japan (loanword from the Japanese word for Japan, 日本 "Nihon")
霓虹灯	ni	deng	(loanword) neon lights
霜淇淋	shuang	lin	soft ice-cream
霞多丽	xia	li	Chardonnay (grape type)
霞山区	xia	qu	Xiashan, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
霞浦县	xia	xian	Xiapu, a county in Ningde City 寧德市|宁德市[Ning2 de2 Shi4], Fujian
霰弹枪	xian	qiang	shotgun
霰粒肿	xian	zhong	(medicine) chalazion
露一手	lou	shou	to show off one's abilities; to exhibit one's skills
露出马脚	lu	jiao	to reveal the cloven foot (idiom); to unmask one's true nature; to give the game away
露华浓	lu	nong	Revlon (American brand of cosmetics)
露天堆栈	lu	zhan	open-air repository; open-air depot
露天大戏院	lu	yuan	open-air amphitheater
露水夫妻	lu	qi	a couple in a short-lived, improper relationship
露水姻缘	lu	yuan	casual romance; short-lived relationship
露脐装	lou	zhuang	crop top (clothing)
露阴癖	lu	pi	indecent exposure; flashing
露馅儿	lou	r	erhua variant of 露餡|露馅[lou4 xian4]
露马脚	lou	jiao	to reveal the cloven foot (idiom); to unmask one's true nature; to give the game away
露齿而笑	lu	xiao	to grin
霸州市	ba	shi	Bazhou, a county-level city in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
霸权主义	ba	yi	hegemonism
霸王别姬	ba	ji	The Conqueror Bids Farewell to His Favorite Concubine (tragic opera by Mei Lanfang 梅蘭芳|梅兰芳[Mei2 Lan2 fang1]); Farewell My Concubine (1993 film by Chen Kaige)
霸王条款	ba	kuan	(law) unfair clause; unequal clause
霸王树	ba	shu	Madagascar palm (Pachypodium lamerei)
霸王硬上弓	ba	gong	to force oneself upon sb (idiom); to rape
霸王鞭	ba	bian	a rattle stick used in folk dancing; rattle stick dance
霸王龙	ba	long	Tyrannosaurus rex
霸道总裁	ba	cai	handsome high-powered businessman (a type of character in an eponymous genre of romantic fiction who typically has a soft spot for a girl of lower social status)
霹雳啪啦	pi	la	see 噼里啪啦[pi1 li5 pa1 la1]
霹雳舞	pi	wu	to breakdance; breakdancing
青云直上	qing	shang	rising straight up in a clear sky (idiom); rapid promotion to a high post; meteoric career
青云谱	qing	pu	see 青雲譜區|青云谱区[Qing1 yun2 pu3 Qu1]
青云谱区	qing	qu	Qingyunpu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
青光眼	qing	yan	glaucoma
青冈县	qing	xian	Qinggang, a county in Suihua City 綏化市|绥化市[Sui2 hua4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
青出于蓝而胜于蓝	qing	lan	lit. the color blue is made out of indigo but is more vivid than indigo (idiom); fig. the student surpasses the master
青原区	qing	qu	Qingyuan, a district of Ji'an City 吉安市[Ji2 an1 Shi4], Jiangxi
青城山	qing	shan	Mount Qingcheng
青堂瓦舍	qing	she	brick house with a tiled roof
青壮年	qing	nian	the prime of one's life
青天大老爷	qing	ye	my lord (respectful form of address for an official or a magistrate in imperial China)
青天白日	qing	ri	(idiom) in broad daylight; in the middle of the day; KMT emblem, a white sun on a blue background
青天霹雳	qing	li	(lit.) thunderclap from a clear sky (idiom); (fig.) a bolt from the blue
青头潜鸭	qing	ya	(bird species of China) Baer's pochard (Aythya baeri)
青头鹦鹉	qing	wu	(bird species of China) slaty-headed parakeet (Psittacula himalayana)
青字头	qing	tou	Chinese character component 龶, used in 青, 毒, 素 etc
青少年	qing	nian	adolescent; youth; teenager
青山区	qing	qu	Qingshan, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei; Qingshan, a district of Baotou City 包頭市|包头市[Bao1 tou2 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
青山湖	qing	hu	see 青山湖區|青山湖区[Qing1 shan1 hu2 Qu1]
青山湖区	qing	qu	Qingshanhu, a district of Nanchang City 南昌市[Nan2 chang1 Shi4], Jiangxi
青山绿水	qing	shui	(lit.) green hills and clear waters (idiom); (fig.) picturesque natural scenery
青岛啤酒	qing	jiu	Tsingtao Beer
青岛市	qing	shi	Qingdao, sub-provincial city in Shandong Province 山東省|山东省[Shan1 dong1 Sheng3]
青川县	qing	xian	Qingchuan, a county in Guangyuan City 廣元市|广元市[Guang3 yuan2 Shi4], Sichuan
青州市	qing	shi	Qingzhou, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
青年人	qing	ren	young person; the young
青年会	qing	hui	YMCA (international Christian youth movement, formed in 1844)
青年团	qing	tuan	youth corps; youth wing of a political party
青年旅舍	qing	she	youth hostel
青年期	qing	qi	adolescence
青年节	qing	jie	Youth Day (May 4th), PRC national holiday for young people aged 14 to 28, who get half a day off
青春不再	qing	zai	lit. one's youth will never return; to make the most of one's opportunities (idiom)
青春期	qing	qi	puberty; adolescence
青春永驻	qing	zhu	to stay young forever
青春痘	qing	dou	acne
青春豆	qing	dou	acne
青柠檬	qing	meng	lime (fruit)
青柠色	qing	se	lime (color); greenish yellow
青梅竹马	qing	ma	lit. green plums and hobby-horse (idiom); fig. innocent children's games; childhood sweethearts
青椒牛柳	qing	liu	beef with green peppers
青檀树	qing	shu	blue sandalwood (Pteroceltis tatarinowii Maxim), the bark of which is used to manufacture 宣紙|宣纸
青江菜	qing	cai	bok choy; Shanghai pak choy; Chinese mustard (Brassica rapa Chinensis)
青河县	qing	xian	Qinggil, a county in Altay Prefecture 阿勒泰地區|阿勒泰地区[A1 le4 tai4 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
青浦区	qing	qu	Qingpu suburban district of Shanghai
青海湖	qing	hu	Qinghai Lake (Tibetan: mtsho-sngon)
青海省	qing	sheng	Qinghai Province, capital Xining 西寧市|西宁市[Xi1 ning2 Shi4] (short name 青[Qing1])
青瓦台	qing	tai	the Blue House (or Cheong Wa Dae), formerly the residence of the president of South Korea in Seoul (1948–2022), now a public park
青田县	qing	xian	Qingtian, a county in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
青白江	qing	jiang	see 青白江區|青白江区[Qing1 bai2 jiang1 Qu1]
青白江区	qing	qu	Qingbaijiang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
青神县	qing	xian	Qingshen, a county in Meishan City 眉山市[Mei2 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
青秀区	qing	qu	Qingxiu, a district of Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
青红帮	qing	bang	traditional secret society, Chinese equivalent of Freemasons
青红皂白	qing	bai	the rights and wrongs of a matter (idiom)
青绿山水	qing	shui	blue-and-green landscape (genre of landscape painting originating in the Tang dynasty, in which blues and greens predominate)
青羊区	qing	qu	Qingyang, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
青脚滨鹬	qing	yu	(bird species of China) Temminck's stint (Calidris temminckii)
青脚鹬	qing	yu	(bird species of China) common greenshank (Tringa nebularia)
青芥辣	qing	la	horseradish; wasabi; green mustard
青花椰菜	qing	cai	broccoli
青花瓷	qing	ci	blue and white porcelain
青花菜	qing	cai	broccoli
青草茶	qing	cha	(Tw) a traditional Taiwanese drink made from cooling medicinal herbs, typically used to relieve internal heat or sore throat, made with ingredients such as mesona 仙草[xian1 cao3], fish mint 魚腥草|鱼腥草[yu2 xing1 cao3], mint and dandelion
青葙子	qing	zi	feather cockscomb (Celosia argentea)
青蒿素	qing	su	Arteannuin (anti-malaria chemical); Artemisinin; Qinghaosu
青藏公路	qing	lu	Qinghai-Tibet Highway
青藏线	qing	xian	the Qinghai-Tibet route
青藏铁路	qing	lu	Qinghai-Tibet railway
青藏铁路线	qing	xian	Qinghai-Tibet Railway
青藏高原	qing	yuan	Qinghai-Tibetan plateau
青金石	qing	shi	lapis lazuli (mineral of the square albite family)
青铜器	qing	qi	bronze implement; refers to ancient bronze artifacts, from c. 2,000 BC
青铜器时代	qing	dai	the Bronze Age; also written 青銅時代|青铜时代[Qing1 tong2 Shi2 dai4]
青铜峡	qing	xia	see 青銅峽市|青铜峡市[Qing1 tong2 xia2 Shi4]
青铜峡市	qing	shi	Qingtongxia, a county-level city in Wuzhong City 吳忠市|吴忠市[Wu2 zhong1 Shi4], Ningxia
青阳县	qing	xian	Qingyang, a county in Chizhou City 池州市[Chi2 zhou1 Shi4], Anhui
青霉素	qing	su	(pharmacology) penicillin
青面獠牙	qing	ya	ferocious-looking (idiom)
青马大桥	qing	qiao	Tsing Ma Bridge (to Hong Kong Airport)
青黄不接	qing	jie	lit. yellow does not reach green (idiom); the yellow autumn crop does not last until the green spring crop; temporary deficit in manpower or resources; unable to make ends meet
青龙县	qing	xian	see 青龍滿族自治縣|青龙满族自治县[Qing1 long2 Man3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
青龙满族自治县	qing	xian	Qinglong Manchu Autonomous County, in Qinhuangdao City 秦皇島市|秦皇岛市[Qin2 huang2 dao3 Shi4], Hebei
靖国神社	jing	she	Yasukuni Shrine, Shinto shrine in Tokyo to Japanese war dead, controversial as burial ground of several Class A war criminals
靖宇县	jing	xian	Jingyu, a county in Baishan City 白山市[Bai2 shan1 Shi4], Jilin
靖安县	jing	xian	Jing'an, a county in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
靖州县	jing	xian	see 靖州苗族侗族自治縣|靖州苗族侗族自治县[Jing4 zhou1 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
靖州苗族侗族自治县	jing	xian	Jingzhou Miao and Dong Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
靖江市	jing	shi	Jingjiang, a county-level city in Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
靖西市	jing	shi	Jingxi, a county-level city in Baise City 百色市[Bai3 se4 Shi4], Guangxi
靖边县	jing	xian	Jingbian, a county in Yulin City 榆林市[Yu2 lin2 Shi4], Shaanxi
靖远县	jing	xian	Jingyuan, a county in Baiyin City 白銀市|白银市[Bai2 yin2 Shi4], Gansu
靖难之役	jing	yi	war of 1402 between successors of the first Ming Emperor
静一静	jing	jing	to put sth to rest; calm down a bit!
静乐县	jing	xian	Jingle, a county in Xinzhou City 忻州市[Xin1 zhou1 Shi4], Shanxi
静力学	jing	xue	statics
静力平衡	jing	heng	static equilibrium
静坐不动	jing	dong	to sit still and do nothing; to sit tight
静坐不能	jing	neng	akathisia (condition of restlessness, a side-effect of neuroleptic antipsychotic drug); unable to sit still; hyperactivity
静坐抗议	jing	yi	sit-in protest
静坐抗议示威	jing	wei	sit-in protest demonstration
静坐罢工	jing	gong	sit-in strike
静宁县	jing	xian	Jingning, a county in Pingliang City 平涼市|平凉市[Ping2 liang2 Shi4], Gansu
静安区	jing	qu	Jing'an district, central Shanghai
静态存储器	jing	qi	static memory
静悄悄	jing	qiao	extremely quiet
静止卫星	jing	xing	(astronomy) stationary satellite
静止轨道	jing	dao	(astronomy) stationary orbit
静止锋	jing	feng	stationary front (meteorology)
静脉吸毒	jing	du	intravenous drug; IV drug
静脉曲张	jing	zhang	varicose veins
静脉注入	jing	ru	intravenous (medicine)
静脉注射	jing	she	intravenous injection
静脉点滴	jing	di	an intravenous drip
靛冠噪鹛	dian	mei	(bird species of China) blue-crowned laughingthrush (Pterorhinus courtoisi)
靛蓝色	dian	se	indigo blue
非一日之功	fei	gong	lit. cannot be done in one day (idiom); fig. will take much time and effort to accomplish
非主流	fei	liu	alternative; non-mainstream
非亲非故	fei	gu	lit. neither a relative nor a friend (idiom); fig. unrelated to one another in any way
非人化	fei	hua	dehumanization
非你莫属	fei	shu	it's yours exclusively (idiom); you are the one; only you deserve it
非党人士	fei	shi	non-party member
非公式	fei	shi	unofficial; informal
非典型肺炎	fei	yan	atypical pneumonia; Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome; SARS
非写实	fei	shi	nonrepresentational
非军事区	fei	qu	demilitarized zone
非分之念	fei	nian	improper idea
非分之想	fei	xiang	(idiom) a presumptuous desire; an aspiration beyond one's reach
非利士人	fei	ren	the Philistines, who settled on the southern coast of Palestine in the 12th century BC
非利士地	fei	di	Philistia, aka the Land of the Philistines
非动物性	fei	xing	inanimacy
非卖品	fei	pin	item that is not for sale
非同凡响	fei	xiang	out of the ordinary
非同寻常	fei	chang	(idiom) extraordinary
非同小可	fei	ke	extremely important; no small matter
非同步	fei	bu	asynchronous
非同步传输模式	fei	shi	asynchronous transfer mode (ATM)
非同质化代币	fei	bi	non-fungible token (NFT)
非国大	fei	da	African National Congress, ANC; abbr. for 非洲人國民大會|非洲人国民大会[Fei1 zhou1 ren2 guo2 min2 da4 hui4]
非国家行为体	fei	ti	non-state actor
非均质	fei	zhi	inhomogeneous
非处方药	fei	yao	over-the-counter drug; OTC drug
非婚生	fei	sheng	born out of wedlock; illegitimate
非婚生子女	fei	nv	an illegitimate child
非宗教	fei	jiao	secular (society); non-religious (party)
非官方	fei	fang	unofficial
非富则贵	fei	gui	see 非富即貴|非富即贵[fei1 fu4 ji2 gui4]
非富即贵	fei	gui	wealthy and respectable people
非对称	fei	chen	asymmetric
非导体	fei	ti	nonconductor (of electricity, heat etc)
非小说	fei	shuo	non-fiction
非层岩	fei	yan	unstratified rock
非层状	fei	zhuang	unstratified
非峰值	fei	zhi	off-peak
非常多	fei	duo	much; very many
非常感谢	fei	xie	extremely grateful; very thankful
非常手段	fei	duan	an emergency measure
非平衡	fei	heng	non-equilibrium; disequilibrium; unbalance
非平衡态	fei	tai	unbalance; disequilibrium
非异人任	fei	ren	to bear one's own responsibilities and not pass them to others (idiom)
非微扰	fei	rao	non-perturbative (physics)
非必要	fei	yao	inessential; unnecessary
非必需	fei	xu	inessential
非拉丁字符	fei	fu	non-Latin characters
非政府	fei	fu	non-governmental
非政府组织	fei	zhi	non-governmental organization (NGO)
非数字	fei	zi	non-numeric
非暴力	fei	li	nonviolent
非机动车	fei	che	non-motorized vehicle
非杠杆化	fei	hua	deleveraging (i.e. paying off part of a leverage loan)
非条件反射	fei	she	unconditioned reflex (physiology)
非标准	fei	zhun	nonstandard
非核化	fei	hua	denuclearization
非核国家	fei	jia	non-nuclear country
非核地带	fei	dai	nuclear-free zone
非核武器国家	fei	jia	non-nuclear weapon states (NNWS)
非模态	fei	tai	modeless (computing)
非欧几何	fei	he	non-Euclidean geometry
非正常	fei	chang	abnormal; irregular
非正式	fei	shi	unofficial; informal
非正数	fei	shu	a nonpositive number (i.e. negative or zero)
非此即彼	fei	bi	either this or that; one or the other
非死不可	fei	ke	Facebook (Internet slang, pun reading "you must die")
非比寻常	fei	chang	extraordinary
非洲之角	fei	jiao	Horn of Africa
非洲人	fei	ren	African (person)
非洲人国民大会	fei	hui	African National Congress, ANC
非洲单源说	fei	shuo	single origin out of Africa (current mainstream theory of human evolution)
非洲大蜗牛	fei	niu	giant African snail (Lissachatina fulica)
非洲大裂谷	fei	gu	East African Rift Valley
非洲开发银行	fei	hang	African Development Bank
非洲猪瘟	fei	wen	African swine fever
非洲界	fei	jie	Afrotropical realm
非洲统一组织	fei	zhi	Organization of African Unity
非洲联盟	fei	meng	African Union
非洲锥虫病	fei	bing	sleeping sickness; African trypanosomiasis
非物质文化遗产	fei	chan	intangible cultural heritage
非独立	fei	li	dependent
非直接	fei	jie	indirect
非相对论性	fei	xing	non-relativistic (physics)
非线性	fei	xing	nonlinear (math.)
非线性光学	fei	xue	nonlinear optics (physics)
非羁押性	fei	xing	noncustodial (sentence)
非自然	fei	ran	unnatural; occult
非致命	fei	ming	(of a medical condition) not fatal; not life-threatening
非营利	fei	li	nonprofit; not for profit
非营利组织	fei	zhi	nonprofit organization
非规整	fei	zheng	irregular; disordered
非诚勿扰	fei	rao	serious inquiries only
非负数	fei	shu	a nonnegative number (i.e. positive or zero)
非递推	fei	tui	nonrecursive
非遗传多型性	fei	xing	polyphenism
非都会郡	fei	jun	non-metropolitan county (England)
非金属	fei	shu	nonmetal (chemistry)
非阿贝尔	fei	er	(math.) non-abelian
非预谋	fei	mou	unpremeditated
非驴非马	fei	ma	neither fish nor fowl; resembling nothing on earth
非高峰	fei	feng	off-peak
非黑即白	fei	bai	black-or-white (e.g. good or bad, with no middle ground)
靠不住	kao	zhu	unreliable
靠山吃山靠水吃水	kao	shui	lit. the mountain dweller lives off the mountain, the shore dweller lives off the sea (idiom); fig. to make the best use of local resources; to exploit one's position to advance oneself
靠得住	kao	zhu	reliable; trustworthy
靠窗座位	kao	wei	window seat
靠背椅	kao	yi	high-back chair
靠走廊	kao	lang	next to the aisle; aisle (seat on aircraft)
靠走道	kao	dao	on the aisle (referring to seats on a plane etc)
靡不有初鲜克有终	mi	zhong	almost everything has a start, but not many things have an end (idiom); don't start sth you can't handle
靡有孑遗	mi	yi	all dead and no survivors
靡靡之音	mi	yin	(idiom) decadent music
面不改色	mian	se	(idiom) not bat an eyelid
面临困难	mian	nan	to be faced with problems
面人儿	mian	r	dough figurine
面包屑	mian	xie	breadcrumbs
面包师傅	mian	fu	baker
面包店	mian	dian	bakery; CL:家[jia1]
面包心	mian	xin	crumb (soft interior of a loaf of bread)
面包房	mian	fang	bakery; CL:家[jia1]
面包机	mian	ji	bread making machine; bread maker
面包果	mian	guo	jackfruit; breadfruit; Artocarpus heterophyllus
面包树	mian	shu	breadfruit tree; Artocarpus altilis
面包渣	mian	zha	breadcrumbs
面包片	mian	pian	slice of bread
面包瓤	mian	rang	crumb (soft interior of a loaf of bread)
面包皮	mian	pi	crust
面包糠	mian	kang	breadcrumbs
面包虫	mian	chong	mealworm (Tenebrio molitor)
面包车	mian	che	van for carrying people; taxi minibus
面向对象语言	mian	yan	object oriented language
面向连接	mian	jie	connection-oriented
面壁思过	mian	guo	to face the wall and ponder about one's misdeeds; to stand in the corner (punishment); (fig.) to examine one's conscience
面如土色	mian	se	ashen-faced (idiom)
面如灰土	mian	tu	ashen-faced (idiom)
面对面	mian	mian	face to face
面带愁容	mian	rong	with a sad air; looking melancholy; with a worried look
面带病容	mian	rong	to look unwell
面心立方最密堆积	mian	ji	face-centered cubic (FCC) (math.)
面恶心善	mian	shan	to have a mean-looking face but a heart of gold (idiom)
面授机宜	mian	yi	(idiom) to brief sb in person on the line of action to pursue; to advise face-to-face on how to deal with the present situation
面无人色	mian	se	ashen-faced
面有菜色	mian	se	to look famished
面有难色	mian	se	to show signs of reluctance or embarrassment
面朝黄土背朝天	mian	tian	face to the ground, back to the sky
面条儿	mian	r	erhua variant of 麵條|面条[mian4 tiao2]
面疙瘩	mian	da	dough dumpling
面目一新	mian	xin	complete change (idiom); facelift; We're in a wholly new situation.
面目全非	mian	fei	nothing remains the same (idiom); change beyond recognition
面目可憎	mian	zeng	repulsive countenance; disgusting appearance
面红耳赤	mian	chi	flushed with anger (or excitement)
面色如土	mian	tu	ashen-faced (idiom)
面试官	mian	guan	interviewer
面部表情	mian	qing	facial expression
面露不悦	mian	yue	to show unhappiness or displeasure (idiom)
面露倦意	mian	yi	to look tired
面面俱到	mian	dao	(idiom) take care of everything; handle everything
面面相觑	mian	qu	to look at each other in dismay (idiom)
面面观	mian	guan	(used in titles) comprehensive survey
面黄肌瘦	mian	shou	(lit.) face yellow and body emaciated (idiom); (fig.) malnourished and sickly in appearance
革兰氏	ge	shi	Mr Gram; Dr. Hans Christian Jaochim Gram (1953-1938), Danish doctor and inventor of the Gram stain 革蘭氏染色法|革兰氏染色法
革兰氏染色法	ge	fa	Gram stain (used to distinguished two different kinds of bacteria)
革兰氏阴性	ge	xing	Gram negative (bacteria that do not retain Gram stain, often the more dangerous kind)
革兰阳	ge	yang	Gram-positive (bacteria)
革兰阳性	ge	xing	Gram-positive (bacteria)
革出山门	ge	men	to excommunicate (from a Buddhist monastery)
革出教门	ge	men	to excommunicate (from a church)
革制品	ge	pin	leather goods
革吉县	ge	xian	Gê'gyai, a county in Ngari Prefecture 阿里地區|阿里地区[A1 li3 Di4 qu1], Tibet
革命先烈	ge	lie	martyr to the revolution
革命家	ge	jia	a revolutionary
革命性	ge	xing	revolutionary
革命烈士	ge	shi	martyr of the revolution
革故鼎新	ge	xin	to discard the old and introduce the new (idiom); to innovate
革面洗心	ge	xin	see 洗心革面[xi3 xin1 ge2 mian4]
靴子落地	xue	di	(lit.) the boot hits the floor (idiom); (fig.) a much-anticipated, impactful development has finally occurred (an allusion to a joke from the 1950s in which a young man would take off a boot and throw it onto the floor, waking the old man sleeping downstairs who could then not get back to sleep until he had heard the second boot hit the floor)
靴掖子	xue	zi	double layer of padding in a boot
靴篱莺	xue	ying	(bird species of China) booted warbler (Iduna caligata)
靴隼雕	xue	diao	(bird species of China) booted eagle (Hieraaetus pennatus)
靶向药	ba	yao	(medicine) targeted drug
鞋拔子	xie	zi	shoehorn
鞍前马后	an	hou	to follow everywhere; to always be there for sb at their beck and call
鞍山市	an	shi	Anshan, prefecture-level city in Liaoning Province 遼寧省|辽宁省[Liao2 ning2 Sheng3]
鞍马劳顿	an	dun	travel-worn
鞑靼人	da	ren	Tatar (person)
鞑靼海峡	da	xia	Strait of Tartary between Sakhalin and Russian mainland
鞘翅目	qiao	mu	Coleoptera (insect order including beetles)
鞠躬尽瘁	ju	cui	to bend to a task and spare no effort (idiom); striving to the utmost
鞠躬尽瘁死而后已	ju	yi	to bend to a task and spare no effort unto one's dying day (idiom); striving to the utmost one's whole life; with every breath in one's body, unto one's dying day
鞭毛纲	bian	gang	flagellate
鞭辟入里	bian	li	penetrated; trenchant; incisive
鞭长莫及	bian	ji	lit. the whip cannot reach (idiom); beyond one's influence; too far to be able to help
韦尔弗雷兹	wei	zi	(George) Wehrfritz (Beijing bureau chief of Newsweek)
韦尔瓦	wei	wa	Huelva, Spain
韦应物	wei	wu	Wei Yingwu (c. 737 – c. 792), Tang dynasty poet
韦慕庭	wei	ting	Clarence Martin Wilbur (1908-1997), US Sinologist and Professor of Columbia University
韦斯卡	wei	ka	Uesca or Huesca, Spain
韦格纳	wei	na	Alfred Wegener (1880-1930), German meteorologist and geophysicist, the originator of the theory of continental drift; also written 魏格納|魏格纳
韦氏拼法	wei	fa	Wade-Giles system (romanization of Chinese)
韦氏鹟莺	wei	ying	(bird species of China) Whistler's warbler (Phylloscopus whistleri)
韦瓦第	wei	di	Vivaldi (name); Antonio Vivaldi (1675-1741), Italian composer
韦编三绝	wei	jue	lit. the leather binding (of the bamboo scroll) has broken three times; fig. to study diligently
韦驮菩萨	wei	sa	Skanda, the general or guardian Bodhisattva
韧皮部	ren	bu	phloem
韩世昌	han	chang	Han Shichang (1897-1977), actor specializing in Kunqu opera 崑曲|昆曲[Kun1 qu3]
韩亚航空	han	kong	Asiana Airlines, South Korean airline
韩亚龙	han	long	H Mart, Korean supermarket chain in US and Canada
韩半岛	han	dao	Korean peninsula (esp. South Korean usage)
韩国人	han	ren	Korean (person)
韩国泡菜	han	cai	kimchi
韩国瑜	han	yu	Daniel Han Kuo-yu (1957-), Taiwanese KMT politician, mayor of Kaohsiung since 2018
韩国联合通讯社	han	she	Yonghap (South Korean news agency)
韩国街	han	jie	Koreatown
韩国语	han	yu	Korean language
韩国银行	han	hang	Bank of Korea
韩城市	han	shi	Hancheng, a county-level and sub-prefectural city of historic significance in Weinan 渭南市[Wei4 nan2 Shi4], Shaanxi
韩复榘	han	ju	Han Fuju (1890–1938), Nationalist Kuomintang (KMT) army general and governor of Shandong, executed by Chiang Kai-shek 蔣介石|蒋介石[Jiang3 Jie4 shi2] after he abandoned Jinan to the Japanese
韩山师范学院	han	yuan	Hanshan Normal University, Shantou, Guangdong
韩式泡菜	han	cai	kimchi
韩彦直	han	zhi	Han Yanzhi (1131-?), Song dynasty botanist, author of classification of orange trees 橘錄|橘录[ju2 lu4]
韩德尔	han	er	(Tw) Handel (name); George Frideric Handel (1685-1759), German-born British composer
韩文字母	han	mu	hangul, Korean phonetic alphabet; Korean letters
韩昇洙	han	zhu	Han Seung-soo (1936-), South Korean diplomat and politician, prime minister 2008-2009
韩棒子	han	zi	Korean (derog.)
韩爱晶	han	jing	Han Aijing (1945-), notorious red guard leader during Cultural Revolution, spent 15 years in prison for imprisoning and torturing political leaders
韩素音	han	yin	Han Suyin (1917-2012), Eurasian physician and author
韩联社	han	she	Yonhap (South Korean news agency)
韩邦庆	han	qing	Han Bangqing (1856-1894), writer and publisher of experimental literary journal in Classical Chinese and Jiangsu vernacular, author of novel 海上花列傳|海上花列传
韩非子	han	zi	another name for Han Fei 韓非|韩非[Han2 Fei1], Legalist philosopher (c. 280-233 BC); Han Feizi, book of Legalist Philosophy authored by Han Fei 韓非|韩非[Han2 Fei1] during the Warring States Period (475-220 BC)
韬光养晦	tao	hui	to conceal one's strengths and bide one's time (idiom); to hide one's light under a bushel
韭菜盒子	jiu	zi	chive pocket, savory pan-fried turnover stuffed with garlic chives and other ingredients (usually contains scrambled eggs)
韭菜花	jiu	hua	chive flowers
音乐之声	yin	sheng	The Sound of Music, Broadway musical (1959) and Academy Award-winning movie (1965)
音乐会	yin	hui	concert; CL:場|场[chang3]
音乐光碟	yin	die	music CD
音乐剧	yin	ju	(theater, cinema) a musical
音乐厅	yin	ting	concert hall; auditorium
音乐学	yin	xue	musicology
音乐学院	yin	yuan	music academy; conservatory
音乐家	yin	jia	musician
音乐电视	yin	shi	Music Television MTV
音乐盒	yin	he	music box
音乐节	yin	jie	music festival
音响效果	yin	guo	sound effects
音响组合	yin	he	stereo system
音响设备	yin	bei	sound equipment; stereo
音意合译	yin	yi	formation of a loanword using some characters (or words) chosen for their meaning and others for phonetic transcription (e.g. 冰淇淋[bing1 qi2 lin2], 朗姆酒[lang3 mu3 jiu3], 奶昔[nai3 xi1] and 米老鼠[Mi3 Lao3 shu3])
音系学	yin	xue	phonology
音节体	yin	ti	syllabic script
音视频	yin	pin	sound and video
音集协	yin	xie	China Audio-Video Copyright Association (CAVCA)
音韵学	yin	xue	Chinese phonetics (concerned also with rhyme in poetry)
音频文件	yin	jian	audio file (computer)
音频设备	yin	bei	audio equipment
韵人韵事	yun	shi	a charming man enjoys charming pursuits (idiom)
韶关市	shao	shi	Shaoguan, prefecture-level city in Guangdong Province 廣東省|广东省[Guang3 dong1 Sheng3]
韶山市	shao	shi	Shaoshan, a county-level city in Xiangtan City 湘潭市[Xiang1 tan2 Shi4], Hunan
页岩气	ye	qi	shale gas
页岩油	ye	you	shale oil
顶刮刮	ding	gua	variant of 頂呱呱|顶呱呱[ding3 gua1 gua1]
顶名冒姓	ding	xing	to pretend to be sb else
顶呱呱	ding	gua	excellent; first-rate; top-notch; superb
顶天立地	ding	di	lit. able to support both heaven and earth; of indomitable spirit (idiom)
顶头上司	ding	si	one's immediate superior
顶夸克	ding	ke	top quark (particle physics)
顶尖儿	ding	r	erhua variant of 頂尖|顶尖[ding3 jian1]
顶尖级	ding	ji	first class; top; world best
顶手费	ding	fei	key money; takeover fee paid to a previous tenant when assuming their lease or business (originally Cantonese)
顶梁柱	ding	zhu	pillar; backbone
顶牛儿	ding	r	to push with the forehead; to lock horns; to be at loggerheads
顶礼膜拜	ding	bai	to prostrate oneself in worship (idiom); (fig.) to worship; to bow down to
顶端优势	ding	shi	(botany) apical dominance
顶门壮户	ding	hu	to support the family business (idiom)
顷刻间	qing	jian	in an instant
项上人头	xiang	tou	head; neck (as in "to save one's neck", i.e. one's life)
项城市	xiang	shi	Xiangcheng, a county-level city in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
项庄舞剑	xiang	jian	lit. Xiang Zhuang performs the sword dance, but his mind is set on Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] (idiom, refers to plot to kill Liu Bang during the Hongmen feast 鴻門宴|鸿门宴[Hong2 men2 yan4] in 206 BC); fig. an elaborate deception hiding malicious intent
项庄舞剑志在沛公	xiang	gong	see 項莊舞劍，意在沛公|项庄舞剑，意在沛公[Xiang4 Zhuang1 wu3 jian4 , yi4 zai4 Pei4 gong1]
项庄舞剑意在沛公	xiang	gong	lit. Xiang Zhuang performs the sword dance, but his mind is set on Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] (idiom); refers to 206 BC plot to murder Liu Bang, aka Duke of Pei 沛公[Pei4 gong1] and the future Han emperor, during a sword dance at the Hongmen feast 鴻門宴|鸿门宴[Hong2 men2 yan4]; an elaborate deception to hide malicious intent
项目管理	xiang	li	project management
顺义区	shun	qu	Shunyi, a district of Beijing
顺其自然	shun	ran	to let nature take its course (idiom)
顺势疗法	shun	fa	homeopathy (alternative medicine)
顺口溜	shun	liu	popular piece of doggerel; common phrase repeated as a jingle
顺嘴儿	shun	r	to read smoothly (of text); to blurt out (without thinking); to suit one's taste (of food)
顺城区	shun	qu	Shuncheng, a district of Fushun City 撫順市|抚顺市[Fu3 shun4 Shi4], Liaoning
顺山倒	shun	dao	Timber! (lumberjack's warning call)
顺带一提	shun	ti	by the way
顺平县	shun	xian	Shunping, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
顺庆区	shun	qu	Shunqing, a district of Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
顺序数	shun	shu	ordinal number
顺应不良	shun	liang	inability to adjust; unable to adapt
顺应天时	shun	shi	going with nature and the seasons (TCM)
顺德区	shun	qu	Shunde, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
顺性别	shun	bie	cisgender
顺我者昌逆我者亡	shun	wang	submit to me and prosper, or oppose me and perish
顺手儿	shun	r	handy; convenient and easy to use; smoothly
顺手牵羊	shun	yang	lit. to lead away a goat while passing by (idiom); fig. to opportunistically pocket sb's possessions and walk off
顺时针	shun	zhen	clockwise
顺昌县	shun	xian	Shunchang, a county in Nanping City 南平市[Nan2 ping2 Shi4], Fujian
顺水人情	shun	qing	to do sb a favor at little cost
顺水推舟	shun	zhou	lit. to push the boat with the current; fig. to take advantage of the situation for one's own benefit
顺水推船	shun	chuan	lit. to push the boat with the current; fig. to take advantage of the situation for one's own benefit
顺河区	shun	qu	Shunhe Hui district of Kaifeng city 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 shi4], Henan
顺河回族区	shun	qu	Shunhe Hui District, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
顺治帝	shun	di	Fulin Emperor Shunzhi (1638-1662), second Qing emperor, reigned 1644-1662
顺理成章	shun	zhang	logical; only to be expected; rational and clearly structured (of text)
顺藤摸瓜	shun	gua	lit. to follow the vine to get to the melon; to track sth following clues
顺风耳	shun	er	sb with preternaturally good hearing (in fiction); fig. a well-informed person
顺风车	shun	che	vehicle that gives one a free ride; (fig.) (ride on sb's) coattails; (take advantage of) an opportunity
顺风转舵	shun	duo	to act according to whatever is the current outlook; pragmatic; unprincipled
顺风顺水	shun	shui	(idiom) to go smoothly; to be smooth sailing
须后水	xu	shui	aftershave
须弥山	xu	shan	Mt Meru or Sumeru, sacred mountain in Buddhist and Jain tradition; Mt Xumi in Guyuan 固原[Gu4 yuan2], Ningxia, with many Buddhist cave statues
须浮鸥	xu	ou	(bird species of China) whiskered tern (Chlidonias hybrida)
顾不上	gu	shang	cannot attend to or manage
顾不及	gu	ji	(of sb who is preoccupied with doing sth) to pay no heed to (a less pressing consideration)
顾不得	gu	de	unable to change sth; unable to deal with
顾全大局	gu	ju	to take the big picture into consideration (idiom); to work for the benefits of all
顾名思义	gu	yi	as the name implies
顾客至上	gu	shang	the customer reigns supreme (idiom)
顾左右而言他	gu	ta	(idiom) to digress from the topic of discussion
顾影自怜	gu	lian	lit. looking at one's shadow and feeling sorry for oneself (idiom); fig. alone and dejected
顾恺之	gu	zhi	Gu Kaizhi or Ku K'aichih (346-407), famous painter of Eastern Jin dynasty, one of the Four Great Painters of the Six Dynasties 六朝四大家
顾此失彼	gu	bi	lit. to attend to one thing and lose sight of another (idiom); fig. to be unable to manage two or more things at once; cannot pay attention to one thing without neglecting the other
顾炎武	gu	wu	Gu Yanwu (1613-1682), late Ming and early Qing Confucian philosopher, linguist and historian, played a founding role in phonology of early Chinese, author of Rizhilu or Record of daily study 日知錄|日知录
顾盼自雄	gu	xiong	to strut about feeling complacent (idiom)
顾野王	gu	wang	Gu Yewang (519-581), historian and an interpreter of classical texts, editor of Yupian 玉篇[Yu4 pian1]
顿挫抑扬	dun	yang	cadence; modulation
顿涅斯克	dun	ke	Donetsk region of W. Ukraine
顿涅茨克	dun	ke	Donetsk, city in Ukraine
颂声载道	song	dao	lit. praise fills the roads (idiom); praise everywhere; universal approbation
预产期	yu	qi	expected date of childbirth; estimated due date (EDD)
预付卡	yu	ka	prepaid card
预制菜	yu	cai	ready-made meal
预印本	yu	ben	a preprint
预告片	yu	pian	trailer (for a movie)
预处理	yu	li	to preprocess
预备役	yu	yi	reserve duty; reserve service; military reserve
预定义	yu	yi	predefined
预应力	yu	li	prestressed
预托证券	yu	quan	depository receipt (DR, in share dealing)
预提费用	yu	yong	(accounting) accrued expense
预收费	yu	fei	prepayment
预期推理	yu	li	predictive inference
预期用途	yu	tu	intended use
预浸料	yu	liao	pre-preg (a type of composite material)
预言家	yu	jia	prophet
预警机	yu	ji	early warning aircraft system, e.g. US AWACS
预警系统	yu	tong	early warning system
预谋杀人	yu	ren	premeditated murder
预防免疫	yu	yi	prophylactic inoculation
预防性	yu	xing	prophylactic; preventative; protective
预防接种	yu	zhong	prophylactic inoculation
预防措施	yu	shi	protective step; protective measure
预防法	yu	fa	prophylaxis; medical prevention
预防针	yu	zhen	immunization injection; fig. forewarning; heads-up
颅测量	lu	liang	craniometry
领事馆	ling	guan	consulate
领便当	ling	dang	see 領盒飯|领盒饭[ling3 he2 fan4]
领先地位	ling	wei	lead(ing) position
领土完整	ling	zheng	territorial integrity
领头羊	ling	yang	bellwether
领奖台	ling	tai	(winner's) podium
领导人	ling	ren	leader
领导力	ling	li	leadership (capacity to lead)
领导小组	ling	zu	leading small group (LSG), a CCP body that exercises general oversight on matters relating to a specific area (LSG for foreign affairs 外事工作, LSG for comprehensively deepening reforms 全面深化改革 etc); aka central leading group
领导层	ling	ceng	ruling class; leaders (of society); oligarchy
领导权	ling	quan	leadership authority
领导班子	ling	zi	leadership group; the leadership
领导统御	ling	yu	(Tw) leadership
领导者	ling	zhe	leader
领导能力	ling	li	leadership (ability)
领导集体	ling	ti	leadership group; collective of leaders
领岩鹨	ling	liu	(bird species of China) alpine accentor (Prunella collaris)
领悟力	ling	li	comprehension; perception; feeling
领料单	ling	dan	material requisition form
领燕鸻	ling	heng	(bird species of China) collared pratincole (Glareola pratincola)
领盒饭	ling	fan	(coll.) (of an actor with a bit part) to receive a boxed meal when one's job is done (phrase used e.g. by movie viewers when a character dies)
领航员	ling	yuan	navigator
领衔主演	ling	yan	leading actors (in a show); starring
领角鸮	ling	xiao	(bird species of China) collared scops owl (Otus lettia)
领雀嘴鹎	ling	bei	(bird species of China) collared finchbill (Spizixos semitorques)
领鵙鹛	ling	mei	(bird species of China) collared babbler (Gampsorhynchus torquatus)
领鸺鹠	ling	liu	(bird species of China) collared owlet (Taenioptynx brodiei)
颈动脉	jing	mai	carotid artery (medicine)
颈椎病	jing	bing	cervical spondylosis
颍上县	ying	xian	Yingshang, a county in Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
颍东区	ying	qu	Yingdong, a district of Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
颍州区	ying	qu	Yingzhou, a district of Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
颍泉区	ying	qu	Yingquan, a district of Fuyang City 阜陽市|阜阳市[Fu4 yang2 Shi4], Anhui
颐养天年	yi	nian	lit. to nurture one's years (idiom); fig. to enjoy one's later years
颐和园	yi	yuan	Summer Palace in Beijing
颐性养寿	yi	shou	to take care of one's spirit and keep fit (idiom)
颐指气使	yi	shi	lit. to order people by pointing the chin (idiom); to signal orders by facial gesture; arrogant and bossy
颐指风使	yi	shi	lit. to order people by pointing the chin (idiom); to signal orders by facial gesture; arrogant and bossy
频数分布	pin	bu	frequency distribution
频率合成	pin	cheng	frequency synthesis
频率调制	pin	zhi	frequency modulation
颓垣断壁	tui	bi	see 斷壁頹垣|断壁颓垣[duan4 bi4 tui2 yuan2]
颓废派	tui	pai	decadents (of the Decadent movement of late 19th century Europe)
颔下腺	han	xian	submaxillary glands (biology)
颔首之交	han	jiao	nodding acquaintance
颗粒归仓	ke	cang	to gather all the harvested grain into the granary; to harvest every single grain
颗粒无收	ke	shou	not a single grain was reaped (as in a bad harvest year)
颗粒物	ke	wu	particulate matter (PM)
题外话	ti	hua	off-topic comment; digression
颚龈音	e	yin	prepalatal or palatal sound (linguistics); palato-alveolar consonant (linguistics)
颜值高	yan	gao	good-looking
颜厚有忸怩	yan	ni	even the most brazen person will sometimes feel shame (idiom)
颜文字	yan	zi	Japanese-style emoticon, e.g. (⇀‸↼‶)
颜真卿	yan	qing	Yan Zhenqing (709-785), a leading calligrapher of the Tang Dynasty
颜面扫地	yan	di	lit. for one's face to reach rock bottom; to be thoroughly discredited (idiom)
额外性	e	xing	additionality (economics)
额外补贴	e	tie	to give an extra subsidy, or bonus etc; bonus; perquisite
额定值	e	zhi	rated value; rating (for power output, flame resistance etc)
额尔古纳	e	na	see 額爾古納市|额尔古纳市[E2 er3 gu3 na4 Shi4]
额尔古纳市	e	shi	Ergun, a county-level city in Hulunbuir City 呼倫貝爾市|呼伦贝尔市[Hu1 lun2 bei4 er3 Shi4], Inner Mongolia
额尔古纳河	e	he	Argun River of Mongolia and Heilongjiang province, tributary of Heilongjiang River 黑龍江|黑龙江[Hei1 long2 jiang1]
额尔金	e	jin	James Bruce, 8th Earl of Elgin (1811-1863), British High Commissioner to China who ordered the looting and destruction of the Old Winter Palace Yuanmingyuan 圓明園|圆明园 in 1860; Thomas Bruce, 7th Earl of Elgin (1766-1841), who stole the Parthenon Marbles in 1801-1810
额尔齐斯河	e	he	Irtysh River, flowing from southwest Altai in Xinjiang through Kazakhstan and Siberia to the Arctic Ocean
额敏县	e	xian	Emin, a county in Tacheng Prefecture 塔城地區|塔城地区[Ta3 cheng2 Di4 qu1], Xinjiang
额比河	e	he	Ebinur River in Xinjiang
额济纳	e	na	Ejin Banner in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
额济纳旗	e	qi	Ejin Banner in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia (formerly in Gansu 1969-1979)
额济纳河	e	he	Ejin River in Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
额菲尔士	e	shi	Everest (name); Colonel Sir George Everest (1790-1866), British Surveyor-General of India 1830-1843; (Mount) Everest
额菲尔士峰	e	feng	Mount Everest
颠三倒四	dian	si	confused; disorderly; incoherent
颠倒是非	dian	fei	(idiom) to distort right and wrong; to deliberately mislead
颠倒黑白	dian	bai	lit. to invert black and white (idiom); to distort the truth deliberately; to misrepresent the facts; to invert right and wrong
颠儿丫子	dian	zi	see 顛兒|颠儿[dian1 r5]
颠儿面	dian	mian	to lose face
颠扑不破	dian	po	solid; unbreakable; (fig.) irrefutable; incontrovertible; indisputable
颠来倒去	dian	qu	to harp on; over and over; merely ring changes on a few terms
颠沛流离	dian	li	homeless and miserable (idiom); to wander about in a desperate plight; to drift
颠覆分子	dian	zi	a subversive; a saboteur
颠覆国家罪	dian	zui	crime of incitement to overthrow the state; abbr. for 煽動顛覆國家政權|煽动颠覆国家政权[shan1 dong4 dian1 fu4 guo2 jia1 zheng4 quan2]
颠覆政府罪	dian	zui	crime of incitement to overthrow the state; abbr. for 煽動顛覆國家政權|煽动颠覆国家政权[shan1 dong4 dian1 fu4 guo2 jia1 zheng4 quan2]
颠覆罪	dian	zui	crime of incitement to overthrow the state; abbr. for 煽動顛覆國家政權|煽动颠覆国家政权[shan1 dong4 dian1 fu4 guo2 jia1 zheng4 quan2]
颠鸾倒凤	dian	feng	to have sexual intercourse
颤巍巍	chan	wei	trembling; swaying; flickering
颤抖不已	chan	yi	to shake like a leaf (idiom)
风中之烛	feng	zhu	lit. candle in the wind (idiom); fig. (of sb's life) feeble; hanging on a thread
风中烛瓦上霜	feng	shuang	lit. like a candle in the wind, or frost on the roof (idiom); fig. (of sb's life) feeble; hanging on a thread
风云人物	feng	wu	the man (or woman) of the moment (idiom); influential figure
风云变幻	feng	huan	changeable situation (idiom)
风信子	feng	zi	hyacinth (flower)
风光旖旎	feng	ni	(idiom) idyllic scenery; picturesque landscape
风凉话	feng	hua	sneering; sarcasm; cynical remarks
风切变	feng	bian	wind shear (meteorology)
风力发电厂	feng	chang	wind farm; wind park
风力水车	feng	che	wind-powered waterwheel
风化作用	feng	yong	weathering (of rocks); erosion (by wind etc)
风化区	feng	qu	see 紅燈區|红灯区[hong2 deng1 qu1]
风华正茂	feng	mao	in one's prime
风华绝代	feng	dai	magnificent style unmatched in his generation (idiom); peerless talent
风口浪尖	feng	jian	where the wind and the waves are the fiercest; at the heart of the struggle
风向标	feng	biao	vane; propellor blade; weather vane
风吹日晒	feng	shai	(idiom) to be exposed to the elements
风吹草动	feng	dong	(lit.) grass stirring in the wind (idiom); (fig.) the slightest whiff of trouble
风吹雨打	feng	da	lit. windswept and battered by rain; to undergo hardship (idiom)
风和日丽	feng	li	moderate wind, beautiful sun (idiom); fine sunny weather, esp. in springtime
风和日暄	feng	xuan	gentle wind and warm sunshine (idiom)
风和日暖	feng	nuan	gentle wind and warm sunshine (idiom)
风土人情	feng	qing	local conditions and customs (idiom)
风声紧	feng	jin	(fig.) the situation is tense
风声鹤唳	feng	li	lit. wind sighing and crane calling (idiom); fig. to panic at the slightest move; to be jittery
风姿绰约	feng	yue	(idiom) graceful; lovely
风尘仆仆	feng	pu	lit. covered in dust (idiom); fig. travel-worn
风平浪静	feng	jing	lit. breeze is still, waves are quiet (idiom); tranquil environment; all is quiet; a dead calm (at sea)
风恬浪静	feng	jing	lit. breeze is still, waves are quiet (idiom); tranquil environment; All is quiet.; a dead calm (at sea)
风情万种	feng	zhong	(idiom) captivating; charming
风景线	feng	xian	a strip of scenic beauty (coast, river, road etc); (fig.) an eye-catching feature
风暴潮	feng	chao	storm surge
风档玻璃	feng	li	windscreen (car window)
风水先生	feng	sheng	feng shui master; geomancer; stock figure in folk tales, as a wise adviser or a charlatan
风水轮流	feng	liu	see 風水輪流轉|风水轮流转[feng1 shui3 lun2 liu2 zhuan4]
风水轮流转	feng	zhuan	fortunes rise and fall; times change
风油精	feng	jing	essential balm containing menthol, eucalyptus oil etc, used as a mosquito repellant
风波不断	feng	duan	constantly in turmoil; crisis after crisis
风流云散	feng	san	lit. dispersed by wind and scattered like clouds (idiom); fig. scattered far and wide (of friends and relatives)
风流佳话	feng	hua	romance; romantic affair
风流倜傥	feng	tang	(idiom) suave; debonair; dashing
风流债	feng	zhai	lit. love debt; fig. moral obligation in consequence of a love affair; karmic consequences of a love affair
风流蕴藉	feng	jie	temperate and refined
风流韵事	feng	shi	poetic and passionate (idiom); romance; love affair
风浪板	feng	ban	(Tw) windsurfing; sailboard
风湿关节炎	feng	yan	rheumatoid arthritis
风湿性关节炎	feng	yan	rheumatoid arthritis
风湿热	feng	re	rheumatic fever
风火轮	feng	lun	(martial arts) wind-and-fire wheel, weapon used in hand-to-hand fighting; (Daoism) a magical pair of wheels on which one can stand to ride at great speed, used by Nezha 哪吒[Ne2 zha5]; (fig.) never-ending treadmill
风烛残年	feng	nian	one's late days; to have one foot in the grave
风生水起	feng	qi	lit. a breeze springs up and creates waves on the water (idiom); fig. flourishing; thriving
风电厂	feng	chang	wind farm; wind park
风筝冲浪	feng	lang	kitesurfing
风花雪月	feng	yue	wind, flower, snow and moon, trite poetry subject (idiom); effete language without substance; love affair; romance is in the air
风行一时	feng	shi	(idiom) to be popular for a while; to be all the rage for a time
风调雨顺	feng	shun	(idiom) to have good weather for crops
风起云涌	feng	yong	to surge like a gathering storm (idiom); to grow by leaps and bounds
风起潮涌	feng	yong	lit. wind rises, tide bubbles up; turbulent times; violent development (idiom)
风趣横生	feng	sheng	(idiom) spiced with wit; very witty
风速计	feng	ji	anemometer
风阻尼器	feng	qi	wind damper (engineering)
风险投资	feng	zi	venture capital investment
风险管理	feng	li	risk management
风雨交加	feng	jia	(idiom) wild and stormy; windy and wet
风雨凄凄	feng	qi	wretched wind and rain
风雨同舟	feng	zhou	lit. in the same boat under wind and rain (idiom); fig. to stick together in hard times
风雨如晦	feng	hui	lit. wind and rain darken the sky (idiom); fig. the situation looks grim
风雨无阻	feng	zu	regardless of weather conditions; rain, hail or shine
风雨晦冥	feng	ming	conditions of extreme adversity (idiom)
风雨欲来	feng	lai	lit. storm clouds approach; troubles lie ahead (idiom)
风雨漂摇	feng	yao	variant of 風雨飄搖|风雨飘摇[feng1 yu3 piao1 yao2]
风雨飘摇	feng	yao	tossed about by the wind and rain (idiom); (of a situation) unstable
风雪交加	feng	jia	(idiom) stormy with wind and snow; blizzard-like (conditions)
风霜雨雪	feng	xue	(lit.) wind, frost, rain and snow (idiom); (fig.) all kinds of trials and hardships
风靡一时	feng	shi	fashionable for a while (idiom); all the rage
风韵犹存	feng	cun	(of an aging woman) still attractive
风风火火	feng	huo	bustling; energetic
风风雨雨	feng	yu	trials and tribulations; ups and downs
风餐露宿	feng	su	lit. to eat in the open air and sleep outdoors (idiom); fig. to rough it
风马旗	feng	qi	Tibetan prayer flag
风马牛不相及	feng	ji	to be completely unrelated to one another (idiom); irrelevant
风驰电掣	feng	che	fast as lightning
飘忽不定	piao	ding	to drift without a resting place (idiom); roving; errant
飘飘然	piao	ran	elated; light and airy feeling (after a few drinks); smug and conceited
飙口水	biao	shui	gossip; idle chat
飞也似的	fei	de	lit. as if flying; very fast
飞出个未来	fei	lai	Futurama (US TV animated series, 1999-)
飞利浦	fei	pu	Philips (company)
飞叶子	fei	zi	(slang) to smoke pot
飞将军	fei	jun	nickname of Han dynasty general Li Guang 李廣|李广[Li3 Guang3]
飞扬跋扈	fei	hu	bossy and domineering; throwing one's weight about
飞拉达	fei	da	(loanword) via ferrata
飞机云	fei	yun	contrail
飞机场	fei	chang	airport; (slang) flat chest; CL:處|处[chu4]
飞机失事	fei	shi	plane crash
飞机师	fei	shi	pilot; aviator
飞机杯	fei	bei	male masturbator (sex toy); artificial vagina
飞机票	fei	piao	air ticket; CL:張|张[zhang1]
飞机舱门	fei	men	airplane cabin door
飞机餐	fei	can	in-flight meal
飞来横祸	fei	huo	sudden and unexpected disaster (idiom)
飞来飞去	fei	qu	to fly about; to fly hither and thither; to flit
飞檐走壁	fei	bi	to leap onto roofs and vault over walls (usually associated with martial arts)
飞毛腿	fei	tui	swift feet; fleet-footed runner
飞沫传染	fei	ran	droplet infection (disease transmission from sneezing, coughing etc)
飞沫四溅	fei	jian	to spray in all directions
飞短流长	fei	chang	variant of 蜚短流長|蜚短流长[fei1 duan3 liu2 chang2]
飞禽走兽	fei	shou	(idiom) birds and animals
飞线充电	fei	dian	to recharge (an electric vehicle) using an extension cable dangling out of a building
飞虎队	fei	dui	Flying Tigers, US airmen in China during World War Two; Hong Kong nickname for police special duties unit
飞蚊症	fei	zheng	eye floaters (moving spots in the eye's vitreous humor)
飞蛾扑火	fei	huo	the moth flies into the flame; fatal attraction
飞蛾投火	fei	huo	see 飛蛾撲火|飞蛾扑火[fei1 e2 pu1 huo3]
飞行云	fei	yun	contrail
飞行员	fei	yuan	pilot; aviator
飞行器	fei	qi	flying craft (airplane, drone, missile, balloon, spacecraft, satellite etc)
飞行检查	fei	cha	unannounced inspection; (sports) out-of-season drug testing; abbr. to 飛檢|飞检[fei1 jian3]
飞行棋	fei	qi	aeroplane chess (a Chinese board game)
飞行模式	fei	shi	airplane mode (on an electronic device)
飞行甲板	fei	ban	flight deck
飞行记录	fei	lu	flight record
飞行记录仪	fei	yi	flight recorder; black box
飞行记录器	fei	qi	flight recorder; black box
飞觥走斝	fei	jia	to drink one's fill (idiom)
飞跃道	fei	dao	parkour (HK)
飞轮海	fei	hai	Fahrenheit, Taiwanese boy band (2005–2012)
飞针走线	fei	xian	flying needle and running seam (idiom); skillful needlework
飞马座	fei	zuo	Pegasus (constellation)
飞鱼座	fei	zuo	Volans (constellation)
飞鱼族	fei	zu	"flying fish family", family who sacrifice everything to send their children abroad to study
飞鸟时代	fei	dai	Asuka Period in Japanese history (538-710 AD)
飞鸿踏雪	fei	xue	see 雪泥鴻爪|雪泥鸿爪[xue3 ni2 hong2 zhao3]
飞鸿雪爪	fei	zhao	see 雪泥鴻爪|雪泥鸿爪[xue3 ni2 hong2 zhao3]
飞鹰走马	fei	ma	to ride out hawking (idiom); to hunt
飞黄腾达	fei	da	lit. the divine steed Feihuang gallops (idiom); fig. to achieve meteoric success in one's career
食不厌精脍不厌细	shi	xi	lit. to eat but finely ground grain and finely chopped meat (idiom, from Analects); fig. to be fastidious about one's food
食不果腹	shi	fu	lit. food not filling the stomach (idiom); fig. poverty-stricken
食不知味	shi	wei	lit. to eat without tasting the food; worried or downhearted (idiom)
食之无味弃之不甘	shi	gan	see 食之無味，棄之可惜|食之无味，弃之可惜[shi2 zhi1 wu2 wei4 , qi4 zhi1 ke3 xi1]
食之无味弃之可惜	shi	xi	lit. to be hardly worth eating, but it would still be a pity to discard it (idiom); fig. some things have little to no value, yet one is still reluctant to part with them
食人俗	shi	su	cannibalism
食人魔	shi	mo	ogre
食人鱼	shi	yu	piranha
食人鲨	shi	sha	man-eating shark; same as 大白鯊|大白鲨[da4 bai2 sha1], great white shark (Carcharodon carcharias)
食古不化	shi	hua	to swallow ancient learning without digesting it (idiom); to be pedantic without having a mastery of one's subject
食品加工机	shi	ji	food processor
食品摊	shi	tan	food vendor's stand
食尸鬼	shi	gui	ghoul
食指大动	shi	dong	(idiom) to be excited to dig into the delicious food
食火鸡	shi	ji	cassowary (genus Casuarius), large flightless bird native to northeastern Australia and New Guinea; CL:隻|只[zhi1]
食物中毒	shi	du	food poisoning
食物及药品管理局	shi	ju	US Food and Drug Administration authority (FDA)
食物链	shi	lian	food chain
食玉炊桂	shi	gui	food is more precious than jade and firewood more expensive than cassia (idiom); the cost of living is very high
食用油	shi	you	cooking oil
食管癌	shi	ai	esophageal cancer
食肉动物	shi	wu	carnivore
食肉寝皮	shi	pi	to eat sb's flesh and sleep on their hide (idiom); to swear revenge on sb; implacable hatred; to have sb's guts for garters
食肉目	shi	mu	Carnivora, order of carnivores within Mammalia
食肉类	shi	lei	carnivorous species
食脑虫	shi	chong	brain-eating amoeba (Naegleria fowleri)
食腐动物	shi	wu	scavenger
食色性也	shi	ye	Appetite and lust are only natural (Mencius 6A:4).; By nature we desire food and sex.
食草动物	shi	wu	herbivore
食荼卧棘	shi	ji	to eat bitter fruit and lie on thorns (idiom); to share the hard life of the common people
食虫植物	shi	wu	insectivorous plant
食虫目	shi	mu	Insectivora
食蚁兽	shi	shou	ant-eater (several different species)
食蟹獴	shi	meng	see 蟹獴[xie4 meng3]
食衣住行	shi	xing	see 衣食住行[yi1 shi2 zhu4 xing2]
食言而肥	shi	fei	lit. to grow fat eating one's words (idiom); fig. not to live up to one's promises
食道癌	shi	ai	esophageal cancer
餐前酒	can	jiu	aperitif
餐后酒	can	jiu	digestif
餐巾纸	can	zhi	paper napkin; serviette
餐桌盐	can	yan	table salt
餐桌转盘	can	pan	revolving tray on a dining table; lazy Susan
餐酒馆	can	guan	(Tw) bistro
餐饮业	can	ye	food service industry; catering industry
餐饮店	can	dian	dining room; restaurant
饕餮之徒	tao	tu	glutton; gourmand; by extension, person who is greedy for power, money, sex etc
饕餮大餐	tao	can	great meal fit for dragon's son (idiom); sumptuous banquet
饕餮纹	tao	wen	zoomorphic mask motif
饥不择食	ji	shi	when hungry, you can't pick what you eat (idiom); beggars can't be choosers; When matters are urgent, don't spend time choosing alternatives.
饥寒交迫	ji	po	beset by hunger and cold (idiom); starving and freezing; in desperate poverty
饥肠辘辘	ji	lu	(idiom) stomach rumbling with hunger; very hungry
饥馑荐臻	ji	zhen	famine repeats unceasingly (idiom, from Book of Songs)
饫甘餍肥	yu	fei	to live off the fat of the land (idiom); to have a luxurious lifestyle
饭后服用	fan	yong	post cibum (pharm.); to take (medicine) after a meal
饭岛柳莺	fan	ying	(bird species of China) Ijima's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus ijimae)
饭气攻心	fan	xin	food coma; postprandial somnolence
饭糗茹草	fan	cao	(lit.) to live on dry provisions and wild herbs (idiom); (fig.) to live in abject poverty
饭馆儿	fan	r	erhua form of 飯館|饭馆[fan4 guan3]
饮恨吞声	yin	sheng	to harbor a grudge with deep-seated hatred (idiom)
饮水器	yin	qi	water dispenser
饮水思源	yin	yuan	lit. when you drink water, think of its source (idiom); gratitude for blessings and their well-spring; Don't forget where your happiness come from.; Be grateful for all your blessings!
饮水机	yin	ji	water dispenser; water cooler; drinking fountain
饮流怀源	yin	yuan	lit. when you drink water, think of its source (idiom); gratitude for blessings and their well-spring; Don't forget where your happiness come from.; Be grateful for all your blessings!
饮用水	yin	shui	drinking water; potable water
饮酒作乐	yin	le	drinking party; to go on a binge; to paint the town red
饮酒驾车	yin	che	drink and drive (moderately high blood alcohol concentration)
饮食疗养	yin	yang	diet
饮鸩止渴	yin	ke	lit. drinking poison in the hope of quenching one's thirst (idiom); fig. a supposed remedy that only makes matters worse
饰胸鹬	shi	yu	(bird species of China) buff-breasted sandpiper (Tryngites subruficollis)
饱人不知饿人饥	bao	ji	The well-fed cannot know how the starving suffer (idiom).
饱以老拳	bao	quan	to thump repeatedly with one's fist
饱和脂肪	bao	fang	saturated fat
饱和脂肪酸	bao	suan	saturated fatty acid (SFA)
饱嗝儿	bao	r	to belch (on a full stomach)
饱汉不知饿汉饥	bao	ji	The well-fed cannot know how the starving suffer (idiom).
饱眼福	bao	fu	to feast one's eyes on (idiom)
饱私囊	bao	nang	to stuff one's pockets; to enrich oneself dishonestly
饱经忧患	bao	huan	having experienced much suffering
饱经沧桑	bao	sang	having lived through many changes
饱经风霜	bao	shuang	weather-beaten; having experienced the hardships of life
饱食终日	bao	ri	to spend the whole day eating (i.e. not doing any work)
饱食终日无所用心	bao	xin	to eat three square meals a day and do no work (idiom); to be sated with food and remain idle
饱餐一顿	bao	dun	to eat one's fill; to be full
饱餐战饭	bao	fan	to fill one's belly before the battle (idiom)
饲养业	si	ye	stock farming; animal husbandry
饲养员	si	yuan	zookeeper; stockman; breeder (of livestock, dogs or poultry etc)
饲养场	si	chang	farm; feed lot; dry lot
饲养者	si	zhe	feeder
饶平县	rao	xian	Raoping, a county in Chaozhou City 潮州市[Chao2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
饶有兴趣	rao	qu	engrossing
饶有风趣	rao	qu	bubbling with humor (idiom); witty and interesting
饶河县	rao	xian	Raohe, a county in Shuangyashan City 雙鴨山市|双鸭山市[Shuang1 ya1 shan1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
饶舌调唇	rao	chun	blabbing and showing off (idiom); loud-mouthed trouble maker
饶舌音乐	rao	yue	rap music
饶阳县	rao	xian	Raoyang, a county in Hengshui City 衡水市[Heng2 shui3 Shi4], Hebei
饺子馆	jiao	guan	dumpling restaurant
饼型图	bing	tu	pie chart; pie diagram
饼状图	bing	tu	pie chart
饿殍载道	e	dao	starved corpses fill the roads (idiom); state of famine
饿肚子	e	zi	to go hungry; to starve
饿莩载道	e	dao	starved corpses fill the roads (idiom); state of famine
饿莩遍野	e	ye	starving people everywhere (idiom); a state of famine
饿虎扑食	e	shi	like a hungry tiger pouncing on its prey
馅儿饼	xian	bing	erhua variant of 餡餅|馅饼[xian4 bing3]
馆陶县	guan	xian	Guantao, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
馊主意	sou	yi	bad idea; stupid suggestion
馋嘴蛙	chan	wa	sautéed bullfrog with chili sauce
馋涎欲垂	chan	chui	see 饞涎欲滴|馋涎欲滴[chan2 xian2 yu4 di1]
馋涎欲滴	chan	di	lit. to drool with desire (idiom); fig. to hunger for; greedy
首付款	shou	kuan	down payment
首创者	shou	zhe	pioneer; trailblazer
首善之区	shou	qu	(idiom) the finest place in the nation (often used in reference to the capital city)
首善之地	shou	di	see 首善之區|首善之区[shou3 shan4 zhi1 qu1]
首字母	shou	mu	initial letter of a word
首字母缩写	shou	xie	acronym
首尔特别市	shou	shi	Seoul Special Metropolitan City, official name of the capital of South Korea
首尾相接	shou	jie	to join head to tail; bumper-to-bumper (of traffic jam)
首尾音	shou	yin	onset and rime
首屈一指	shou	zhi	to count as number one (idiom); second to none; outstanding
首席代表	shou	biao	chief representative
首席信息官	shou	guan	chief information officer (CIO)
首席大法官	shou	guan	Chief Justice (of US Supreme Court)
首席执行官	shou	guan	chief executive officer (CEO)
首席技术官	shou	guan	chief technology officer (CTO)
首席法官	shou	guan	Chief Justice
首席营销官	shou	guan	chief marketing officer (CMO)
首席财务官	shou	guan	chief financial officer (CFO)
首席运营官	shou	guan	chief operating officer (COO)
首当其冲	shou	chong	to bear the brunt
首战告捷	shou	jie	to win the first battle
首日封	shou	feng	first day cover (philately)
首映式	shou	shi	premiere of a movie
首次公开募股	shou	gu	initial public offering (IPO)
首次公开招股	shou	gu	see 首次公開募股|首次公开募股[shou3 ci4 gong1 kai1 mu4 gu3]
首次注视时间	shou	jian	(psychology) first fixation duration
首脑会晤	shou	wu	leadership meeting
首脑会议	shou	yi	leadership conference; summit meeting
首脑会谈	shou	tan	summit talks; discussion between heads of state
首都剧场	shou	chang	the Capital Theater (in Beijing)
首都国际机场	shou	chang	Beijing Capital International Airport
首都机场	shou	chang	Beijing Capital International Airport (PEK)
首都经济贸易大学	shou	xue	Capital University of Economics and Business (Beijing)
首都经贸大学	shou	xue	Capital University of Business and Economics, Beijing
首都领地	shou	di	capital territory; Australian Capital Territory (ACT) around Canberra 堪培拉
首鼠两端	shou	duan	(idiom) to hesitate; to remain undecided
香体剂	xiang	ji	deodorant
香口胶	xiang	jiao	chewing gum
香叶醇	xiang	chun	geraniol (chemistry)
香味扑鼻	xiang	bi	exotic odors assail the nostrils (idiom)
香喷喷	xiang	pen	delicious; savory
香坊区	xiang	qu	Xiangfang, a district of Harbin City 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
香奈儿	xiang	er	Chanel (brand name)
香娇玉嫩	xiang	nen	a beautiful woman
香子兰	xiang	lan	vanilla; Vanilla planifolia
香山公园	xiang	yuan	Fragrant Hills Park, Beijing
香山区	xiang	qu	Hsiangshan, a district of Hsinchu 新竹市[Xin1 zhu2 Shi4], Taiwan
香巴拉	xiang	la	Shambhala, mythical place (Buddhism, Hinduism)
香根草	xiang	cao	vetiver grass (Vetiveria zizanoides)
香格里拉	xiang	la	Shangri-la, the beautiful, idyllic land of James Hilton's 1933 novel "Lost Horizon"; a paradise on earth; see 香格里拉市[Xiang1 ge2 li3 la1 Shi4]
香格里拉市	xiang	shi	Shangri-La, a county-level city in Diqing Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture 迪慶藏族自治州|迪庆藏族自治州[Di2 qing4 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
香榭丽舍	xiang	she	Champs Élysées
香榭丽舍大街	xiang	jie	Avenue des Champs-Élysées
香槟酒	xiang	jiu	(loanword) champagne; CL:瓶[ping2],杯[bei1]
香樟树	xiang	shu	camphor tree (Cinnamomum officinarum)
香河县	xiang	xian	Xianghe, a county in Langfang City 廊坊市[Lang2 fang2 Shi4], Hebei
香洲区	xiang	qu	Xiangzhou, a district of Zhuhai City 珠海市[Zhu1 hai3 Shi4], Guangdong
香消玉损	xiang	sun	see 香消玉殞|香消玉殒[xiang1 xiao1 yu4 yun3]
香消玉殒	xiang	yun	(idiom) (of a beautiful woman) to die; to pass away
香消玉碎	xiang	sui	see 香消玉殞|香消玉殒[xiang1 xiao1 yu4 yun3]
香港中文大学	xiang	xue	Chinese University of Hong Kong
香港交易所	xiang	suo	Hong Kong Stock Exchange
香港人	xiang	ren	Hong Kong person or people
香港众志	xiang	zhi	Demosistō, a pro-democracy political party in Hong Kong, established in 2016
香港基本法	xiang	fa	Hong Kong Basic Law (in effect since the resumption of Chinese sovereignty in 1997)
香港大学	xiang	xue	The University of Hong Kong
香港岛	xiang	dao	Hong Kong Island
香港工会联合会	xiang	hui	Hong Kong Federation of Trade Unions
香港文化中心	xiang	xin	Hong Kong Cultural Center
香港湿地公园	xiang	yuan	Hong Kong Wetland Park, in Yuen Long, New Territories
香港理工大学	xiang	xue	Hong Kong Polytechnic University
香港电台	xiang	tai	Radio Television Hong Kong (RTHK), public broadcaster
香港科技大学	xiang	xue	The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology
香港脚	xiang	jiao	athlete's foot
香港警察	xiang	cha	Hong Kong Police Force (since 1997)
香港贸易发展局	xiang	ju	Hong Kong Trade Development Council
香港足球总会	xiang	hui	Hong Kong Football Association
香港金融管理局	xiang	ju	Hong Kong Monetary Authority
香港银行公会	xiang	hui	Hong Kong Association of Banks
香火不绝	xiang	jue	an unending stream of pilgrims
香火钱	xiang	qian	donations to a temple
香火鼎盛	xiang	sheng	(of a temple) teeming with worshippers
香熏疗法	xiang	fa	aromatherapy (alternative medicine)
香獐子	xiang	zi	musk deer (Moschus moschiferus)
香肠嘴	xiang	zui	swollen lips; overly plump lips
香胰子	xiang	zi	toilet soap
香茅醇	xiang	chun	citronellol (chemistry)
香草兰	xiang	lan	vanilla (Vanilla planifolia)
香草精	xiang	jing	vanilla extract; vanilla essence
香蒜酱	xiang	jiang	garlic sauce; pesto
香蕉人	xiang	ren	banana person (yellow outside, white inside); mildly pejorative term used by Chinese for assimilated Asian Americans; Westernized person of Asian appearance
香薄荷	xiang	he	savory (herb)
香豌豆	xiang	dou	sweet pea (Lathyrus odoratus)
香车宝马	xiang	ma	see 寶馬香車|宝马香车[bao3 ma3 xiang1 che1]
香饽饽	xiang	bo	delicious cakes; popular person; sth that is in high demand
香馥馥	xiang	fu	richly scented; strongly perfumed
馥列白	fu	bai	flat white
馥芮白	fu	bai	flat white
马丁尼	ma	ni	(loanword) martini
马丁炉	ma	lu	Martin furnace; open hearth furnace; open hearth
马三家	ma	jia	Masanjia town in Yuhong District 于洪區|于洪区[Yu2 hong2 Qu1] in Liaoning, known for its re-education through labor camp
马三立	ma	li	Ma Sanli (1914-2003), Chinese comedian
马上比武	ma	wu	tournament (contest in Western chivalry); jousting
马上风	ma	feng	death during sexual intercourse
马不停蹄	ma	ti	unrelenting; without stopping to rest
马丘比丘	ma	qiu	Machu Picchu
马中锡	ma	xi	Ma Zhongxi, Ming writer (1446-1512), author of the fable The Wolf of Zhongshan 中山狼傳|中山狼传[Zhong1 shan1 Lang2 Zhuan4]
马伯乐	ma	le	Maspero (name)
马俊仁	ma	ren	Ma Junren (1944-), Chinese track coach
马克宏	ma	hong	(Tw) Emmanuel Macron (1977-), president of France from 2017
马克思	ma	si	Marx (name); Karl Marx (1818-1883), German revolutionary, economist and historian
马克思主义	ma	yi	Marxism
马克思列宁主义	ma	yi	Marxism-Leninism
马克斯威尔	ma	er	James Clerk Maxwell (1831-1879)
马克杯	ma	bei	(loanword) mug
马克沁	ma	qin	Sir Hiram Maxim (1840-1916), American British inventor of the Maxim machine gun
马克沁机枪	ma	qiang	Maxim machine gun
马克笔	ma	bi	marker (loanword); felt marker
马克西米连	ma	lian	Maximilian or Maximilien (name)
马克龙	ma	long	Emmanuel Macron (1977-), president of France from 2017
马兜铃科	ma	ke	Aristolochiaceae (birthwort family)
马兜铃酸	ma	suan	aristolochic acid
马公市	ma	shi	Makung city in Penghu county 澎湖縣|澎湖县[Peng2 hu2 xian4] (Pescadores Islands), Taiwan
马六甲	ma	jia	Malacca or Melaka (town and state in Malaysia), also strait between Malaysia and Sumatra
马六甲海峡	ma	xia	Strait of Malacca
马兰基地	ma	di	Malan military base and atomic test site in Bayingolin Mongol Autonomous Prefecture 巴音郭楞蒙古自治州[Ba1 yin1 guo1 leng2 Meng3 gu3 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Xinjiang
马兰花	ma	hua	iris; Iris tectorum
马关县	ma	xian	Maguan, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
马关条约	ma	yue	Treaty of Shimonoseki (1895), concluding the First Sino-Japanese War 甲午戰爭|甲午战争[Jia3 wu3 Zhan4 zheng1]
马其顿	ma	dun	Macedonia
马其顿共和国	ma	guo	Republic of Macedonia (former Yugoslav republic)
马列主义	ma	yi	Marxism-Leninism
马列毛	ma	mao	Marx, Lenin and Mao
马利亚	ma	ya	Maria (name); Mary, mother of Jesus Christ
马利亚纳群岛	ma	dao	Mariana Islands in the Pacific
马利基	ma	ji	Maliki or Al-Maliki (name); Nouri Kamel al-Maliki (1950-) prime minister of Iraq 2006-2014
马利筋	ma	jin	tropical milkweed (Asclepias curassavica)
马到成功	ma	gong	to win instant success (idiom)
马前卒	ma	zu	lackey; errand boy; lit. runner before a carriage
马加骆	ma	luo	(loanword) mozzarella
马勃菌	ma	jun	puffball (mushroom in the division Basidiomycota)
马化腾	ma	teng	Ma Huateng aka Pony Ma (1971-), Chinese business magnate, CEO of Tencent
马南邨	ma	cun	Ma Nancun (1912-1966), pen name of Deng Tuo 鄧拓|邓拓
马卡龙	ma	long	(loanword) macaron, French pastry with a soft filling sandwiched between the meringue-based cookie shells
马友友	ma	you	Yo-Yo Ma (1955-), French-Chinese-American cellist
马口铁	ma	tie	tinplate; tin (tin-coated steel)
马可尼	ma	ni	Marconi, UK electronics company
马可福音	ma	yin	Gospel according to St Mark
马后炮	ma	pao	(Chinese chess) moving the cannon after moving the horse away; (fig.) a useless action or comment; sth done after it's too late
马哈拉施特拉邦	ma	bang	Maharashtra (state in India)
马哈迪	ma	di	Mahathir bin Mohamad (1925-), Malaysian politician, prime minister 1981-2003 and 2018-2020
马噶尔尼	ma	ni	Earl George Macartney (1737-1806), leader of British mission to Qing China in 1793; Paul McCartney, former Beatle
马噶尔尼使团	ma	tuan	the Macartney mission to Qing China in 1793
马塞卢	ma	lu	Maseru, capital of Lesotho
马大哈	ma	ha	a careless person; scatterbrain; frivolous and forgetful
马天尼	ma	ni	(loanword) martini
马太福音	ma	yin	Gospel according to St Matthew
马失前蹄	ma	ti	lit. the horse loses its front hooves; fig. sudden failure through miscalculation or inattentiveness
马头星云	ma	yun	Horsehead Nebula
马头琴	ma	qin	morin khuur (Mongolian bowed stringed instrument)
马奶酒	ma	jiu	kumis; horse milk wine
马家军	ma	jun	the Ma clique of warlords in Gansu and Ningxia during the 1930s and 1940s
马尔他	ma	ta	Malta (Tw)
马尔他人	ma	ren	Maltese (person)
马尔他语	ma	yu	Maltese (language)
马尔代夫	ma	fu	the Maldives
马尔卡河	ma	he	Malka River, Russia, a.k.a. Balyksu River
马尔可夫过程	ma	cheng	Markov process (math.)
马尔地夫	ma	fu	the Maldives (Tw)
马尔堡病毒	ma	du	Marburg virus
马尔库斯	ma	si	Marcus (name)
马尔康	ma	kang	see 馬爾康市|马尔康市[Ma3 er3 kang1 Shi4]
马尔康市	ma	shi	Barkam, a county-level city in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
马尔斯	ma	si	Mars (Roman God of War)
马尔维纳斯群岛	ma	dao	Malvinas Islands (also known as Falkland Islands)
马尔谷	ma	gu	Mark; St Mark the evangelist; less common variant of 馬克|马克[Ma3 ke4] preferred by the Catholic Church
马尔贝克	ma	ke	Malbec (grape type)
马尔马拉海	ma	hai	Sea of Marmara
马尔默	ma	mo	Malmo (Malmo city, of Sweden)
马尼托巴	ma	ba	Manitoba province, Canada
马尼拉	ma	la	Manila, capital of Philippines
马尼拉大学	ma	xue	University of Manila
马尾军港	ma	gang	Mawei naval base at Fuzhou city (in Qing times)
马尾区	ma	qu	Mawei, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
马尾松	ma	song	Masson pine (Pinus massoniana, Chinese red pine, horsetail pine)
马尾水	ma	shui	Mawei river through Fuzhou city
马尾水师学堂	ma	tang	Mawei River naval college, alternative name for Fuzhou naval college 福州船政學堂|福州船政学堂, set up in 1866 by the Qing dynasty
马尾港	ma	gang	Mawei harbor, the harbor of Fuzhou city
马尾穿豆腐提不起来	ma	lai	lit. like tofu strung on horsetail, you can't lift it; fig. let's not talk of this (pun on 提[ti2])
马尾辫	ma	bian	ponytail
马屁精	ma	jing	sycophant; toady; bootlicker
马山县	ma	xian	Mashan, a county in Nanning City 南寧市|南宁市[Nan2 ning2 Shi4], Guangxi
马工枚速	ma	su	Sima Xiangru is meticulous and Mei Gao is fast (idiom); to each his good points
马布多	ma	duo	Maputo, capital of Mozambique (Tw)
马库色	ma	se	Marcuse (philosopher)
马德拉斯	ma	si	Madras or Chennai 欽奈|钦奈[Qin1 nai4], capital of Tamil Nadu on East coast of India
马德拉群岛	ma	dao	Madeira; the Madeira Islands
马德望	ma	wang	Battambang
马德里	ma	li	Madrid, capital of Spain
马恩列斯	ma	si	abbr. for Marx 馬克思|马克思[Ma3 ke4 si1], Engels 恩格斯[En1 ge2 si1], Lenin 列寧|列宁[Lie4 ning2] and Stalin 斯大林[Si1 da4 lin2]
马恩岛	ma	dao	Isle of Man, British Isles; Isle of Mann
马戏团	ma	tuan	circus
马戛尔尼	ma	ni	Earl George Macartney (1737-1806), leader of British mission to Qing China in 1793; Paul McCartney, former Beatle
马戛尔尼使团	ma	tuan	the Macartney mission to Qing China in 1793
马扎尔	ma	er	Magyar; Hungarian
马扎尔语	ma	yu	Magyar (language); Hungarian
马托格罗索	ma	suo	Mato Grosso, a state of Brazil
马拉加	ma	jia	Málaga, Spain; Malaga city in Iranian East Azerbaijan
马拉博	ma	bo	Malabo, capital of Equatorial Guinea
马拉喀什	ma	shi	Marrakech (city in Morocco)
马拉地	ma	di	Marathi language of west India
马拉地语	ma	yu	Marathi language of west India
马拉多纳	ma	na	Diego Maradona (1960–2020), Argentine footballer
马拉威	ma	wei	Malawi (Tw)
马拉开波	ma	bo	Maracaibo, Venezuela
马拉斯奇诺樱桃	ma	tao	maraschino cherry
马拉松	ma	song	(loanword) marathon
马拉松赛	ma	sai	marathon race
马拉盏	ma	zhan	(loanword) belachan (South-East Asian condiment made from fermented shrimp paste)
马拉糕	ma	gao	Cantonese sponge cake also known as mara cake
马拉维	ma	wei	Malawi
马拿瓜	ma	gua	Managua, capital of Nicaragua (Tw)
马提尼克	ma	ke	Martinique (French Caribbean island)
马斯克	ma	ke	Elon Musk (1971–), entrepreneur, CEO of Tesla and SpaceX
马斯内	ma	nei	Jules Massenet (1842-1912), French composer
马斯喀特	ma	te	Muscat, capital of Oman
马斯垂克	ma	ke	Maastricht (Netherlands)
马斯河	ma	he	Maas or Meuse River, Western Europe
马斯洛	ma	luo	Abraham Maslow (1908–1970), US psychologist
马斯特里赫特	ma	te	Maastricht
马普托	ma	tuo	Maputo, capital of Mozambique
马服君	ma	jun	Ma Fujun, famous general of Zhao 趙國|赵国
马服子	ma	zi	Ma Fuzi (-260 BC), hapless general of Zhao 趙國|赵国[Zhao4 Guo2], who famously led an army of 400,000 to total annihilation at battle of Changping 長平之戰|长平之战[Chang2 ping2 zhi1 Zhan4] in 260 BC; also called Zhao Kuo 趙括|赵括[Zhao4 Kuo4]
马朱罗	ma	luo	Majuro, capital of Marshall Islands
马杀鸡	ma	ji	(loanword) massage
马村区	ma	qu	Macun, a district of Jiaozuo City 焦作市[Jiao1 zuo4 Shi4], Henan
马来亚	ma	ya	Malaya
马来人	ma	ren	Malay person or people
马来半岛	ma	dao	Malay Peninsula
马来文	ma	wen	Malay language
马来西亚	ma	ya	Malaysia
马来西亚人	ma	ren	Malaysian person or people
马来西亚语	ma	yu	Malaysian Malay (the official variety of Malay spoken in Malaysia)
马来语	ma	yu	Malay language
马来鸻	ma	heng	(bird species of China) Malaysian plover (Anarhynchus peronii)
马林巴	ma	ba	(loanword) marimba
马格德堡	ma	bao	Magdeburg (German city)
马桶刷	ma	shua	toilet brush
马桶拔子	ma	zi	toilet plunger
马桶搋子	ma	zi	toilet plunger
马槟榔	ma	lang	Capparis masaikai
马歇尔	ma	er	Marshall (name); George Catlett Marshall (1880-1959), US general in WWII and Secretary of State 1947-1949, author of the postwar Marshall plan for Europe and Nobel peace laureate
马氏体	ma	ti	(metallurgy) martensite; martensitic
马氏珍珠贝	ma	bei	pearl oyster (genus Pinctada)
马氏管	ma	guan	Malpighian tubule system (in the insect digestive tract etc)
马海毛	ma	mao	(loanword) mohair
马王堆	ma	dui	Mawangdui in Changsha, Hunan, a recent Han dynasty archaeological site
马瑙斯	ma	si	Manaus (city in Brazil)
马甲线	ma	xian	(neologism, attested by 2013) (coll.) vertical groove visible on either side of the belly in a person with well-toned abs
马略卡	ma	ka	Mallorca or Majorca (island of Spain)
马礼逊	ma	xun	Robert Morrison (1782-1834), Presbyterian minister, translator, and the London Missionary Society's first missionary to China
马祖列岛	ma	dao	Matsu Islands
马穆楚	ma	chu	Mamoudzou, capital of Mayotte
马粪纸	ma	zhi	strawboard
马约卡	ma	ka	Mallorca or Majorca (island of Spain)
马约特	ma	te	Mayotte, island between NW Madagascar and Mozambique
马纳马	ma	ma	Manama, capital of Bahrain
马绍尔群岛	ma	dao	Marshall Islands
马缨丹	ma	dan	lantana (botany)
马缨花	ma	hua	Persian silk tree (Albizia julibrissin); tree rhododendron (Rhododendron delavayi)
马耳东风	ma	feng	(lit.) the east wind blowing in a horse's ear (idiom); (fig.) words one pays no heed to
马耳他	ma	ta	Malta
马自达	ma	da	Mazda, Japanese car make (derived from name Matsuda 松田); also known as 萬事得|万事得
马致远	ma	yuan	Ma Zhiyuan (c. 1250-1321), Yuan dynasty dramatist in the 雜劇|杂剧[za2 ju4] tradition of musical comedy, one of the Four Great Yuan Dramatists 元曲四大家[Yuan2 qu3 Si4 Da4 jia1]
马苏德	ma	de	Massoud (name); Ahmed Shah Massoud (1953-2001), Tajik Afghan engineer, military man and anti-Taleban leader
马苏里拉	ma	la	(loanword) mozzarella
马英九	ma	jiu	Ma Ying-jeou (1950-), Taiwanese Kuomintang politician, Mayor of Taipei 1998-2006, president of Republic of China 2008-2016
马萨诸塞	ma	sai	Massachusetts, US state
马葫芦	ma	lu	(dialect) (loanword) manhole
马蛔虫	ma	chong	horse roundworm; parascaris equorum
马褡子	ma	zi	saddle-bag
马赛克	ma	ke	mosaic (loanword); pixelation
马赛族	ma	zu	Basay, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan; Maasai people of Kenya
马赛曲	ma	qu	La Marseillaise
马赫数	ma	shu	(physics) Mach number
马路口	ma	kou	intersection (of roads)
马路沿儿	ma	r	roadside; edge of the road
马路牙子	ma	zi	curb
马蹄形	ma	xing	horseshoe shape
马蹄星云	ma	yun	Omega or Horseshoe Nebula M17
马蹄莲	ma	lian	calla; calla lily
马蹄蟹	ma	xie	horseshoe crab (Tachypleus tridentatus)
马蹄铁	ma	tie	horseshoe
马边县	ma	xian	see 馬邊彝族自治縣|马边彝族自治县[Ma3 bian1 Yi2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
马边彝族自治县	ma	xian	Mabian Yi Autonomous County, in Leshan City 樂山市|乐山市[Le4 shan1 Shi4], Sichuan
马达加斯加	ma	jia	Madagascar
马达加斯加岛	ma	dao	Madagascar
马连良	ma	liang	Ma Lianliang (1901-1966), Beijing opera star, one of the Four great beards 四大鬚生|四大须生
马那瓜	ma	gua	Managua, capital of Nicaragua
马里亚纳海沟	ma	gou	Mariana Trench
马里亚纳群岛	ma	dao	Mariana Islands in the Pacific
马里兰	ma	lan	Maryland, US state
马里博尔	ma	er	Maribor, 2nd biggest city in Slovenia
马里奥	ma	ao	Mario (name)
马钱子	ma	zi	Strychnos nux-vomica
马铃薯	ma	shu	potato
马铃薯泥	ma	ni	mashed potato
马雅可夫斯基	ma	ji	Vladimir Mayakovsky (1893-1930), Russian poet and dramatist
马革裹尸	ma	shi	to be buried in a horse hide (idiom); to give one's life on the battlefield
马鞍山	ma	shan	see 馬鞍山市|马鞍山市[Ma3 an1 shan1 Shi4]
马鞍山市	ma	shi	Ma'anshan, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
马首是瞻	ma	zhan	to follow blindly (idiom); to take as one's only guide
马马虎虎	ma	hu	careless; casual; vague
马驹子	ma	zi	see 馬駒|马驹[ma3 ju1]
马鲛鱼	ma	yu	Spanish mackerel
马鹿易形	ma	xing	to distinguish horse and deer easily; to know right from wrong
马黛茶	ma	cha	(loanword) maté (drink)
马齿徒增	ma	zeng	(self-deprecating) to have grown old without accomplishing anything (idiom)
马齿苋	ma	xian	Portulaca oleracea (common purslane)
马龙区	ma	qu	Malong, a district of Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
马龙派	ma	pai	Maronite Church; Maronites
驭兽术	yu	shu	animal training; taming wild beast (e.g. lion-taming)
驮运路	tuo	lu	a bridle path
驯养繁殖	xun	zhi	domestication and breeding; captive breeding
驯养繁殖场	xun	chang	captive breeding facility; breeding farm
驯悍记	xun	ji	Taming of the Shrew, play by William Shakespeare
驯马人	xun	ren	horse trainer
驯马场	xun	chang	horse training ground
驰龙科	chi	ke	Dromaeosauridae (dinosaur family including velociraptor)
驱动力	qu	li	driving force
驱动器	qu	qi	drive
驱动程序	qu	xu	device driver (computing software)
驱动轮	qu	lun	drive wheel
驱逐令	qu	ling	banishment order; expulsion warrant
驱逐出境	qu	jing	to deport; to expel
驱逐舰	qu	jian	destroyer (warship)
驱除鞑虏	qu	lu	expel the Manchu, revolutionary slogan from around 1900
驱魔赶鬼	qu	gui	to exorcise; to drive out evil spirits
驳壳枪	bo	qiang	Mauser pistol
驳面子	bo	zi	to hurt sb's feelings by rebuffing their request
驴唇不对马嘴	lv	zui	(lit.) a donkey's lips do not match a horse's mouth (saying); (fig.) wide of the mark; irrelevant; incongruous
驴唇马嘴	lv	zui	(lit.) a donkey's lips do not match a horse's mouth (idiom); (fig.) wide of the mark; irrelevant; incongruous
驴年马月	lv	yue	see 猴年馬月|猴年马月[hou2 nian2 ma3 yue4]
驴肝肺	lv	fei	(lit.) a donkey's liver and lungs; (fig.) ill intent
驴驹子	lv	zi	donkey foal
驻车制动器	zhu	qi	parking brake
驻马店	zhu	dian	see 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4]
驻马店市	zhu	shi	Zhumadian, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
驼峰命名法	tuo	fa	(computing) CamelCase
驼背鲸	tuo	jing	humpback whale (Megaptera novaeangliae)
驽马恋栈	nu	zhan	lit. a worn-out horse is reluctant to leave the stable (idiom); fig. a mediocre worker clings to a good position
驽马恋栈豆	nu	dou	see 駑馬戀棧|驽马恋栈[nu2 ma3 lian4 zhan4]
驾帆船	jia	chuan	sailing
驾轻就熟	jia	shu	lit. an easy drive on a familiar path (idiom); fig. experience makes progress easy; a task that is so familiar one can do it with one's hand tied behind one's back
驾驶人	jia	ren	(car, van) driver
驾驶员	jia	yuan	pilot; driver
驾驶室	jia	shi	cab (of a locomotive, truck etc); driver's compartment; wheelhouse
驾驶席	jia	xi	driver's seat; pilot's seat
驾驶执照	jia	zhao	driver's license
驾驶舱	jia	cang	cockpit; control cabin
驾驶证	jia	zheng	driver's license
驾鹤成仙	jia	xian	to fly on a crane and become immortal
驾鹤西去	jia	qu	lit. to fly on a crane to the Western Paradise; fig. to pass away (idiom)
驾鹤西归	jia	gui	see 駕鶴西去|驾鹤西去[jia4 he4 xi1 qu4]
驾鹤西游	jia	you	see 駕鶴西去|驾鹤西去[jia4 he4 xi1 qu4]
驿城区	yi	qu	Yicheng, a district of Zhumadian City 駐馬店市|驻马店市[Zhu4 ma3 dian4 Shi4], Henan
骁勇善战	xiao	zhan	to be brave and good at fighting (idiom)
骂不绝口	ma	kou	to scold without end (idiom); incessant abuse
骂到臭头	ma	tou	to chew sb out (Tw)
骂骂咧咧	ma	lie	to swear while talking; to be foul-mouthed
骄兵必败	jiao	bai	lit. an arrogant army is bound to lose (idiom); fig. pride goes before a fall
骄奢淫佚	jiao	yi	variant of 驕奢淫逸|骄奢淫逸[jiao1 she1 yin2 yi4]
骄奢淫逸	jiao	yi	extravagant and dissipated; decadent
骄者必败	jiao	bai	pride goes before a fall (idiom)
骄阳似火	jiao	huo	the sun shines fiercely
骆宾王	luo	wang	Luo Binwang (640-684), one of Four Great Poets of the Early Tang 初唐四傑|初唐四杰[Chu1 Tang2 Si4 jie2]
骆驼祥子	luo	zi	Camel Xiangzi, novel by Lao She 老舍[Lao3 She3]
骇人听闻	hai	wen	shocking; horrifying; atrocious
骈偶文风	pian	feng	early Tang literary style despised as shallow by the classicists
骊姬之乱	li	luan	Li Ji Rebellion in 657-651 BC, where concubine Li Ji tried to throne her son but was eventually defeated by Duke Wen of Jin 晉文公|晋文公[Jin4 Wen2 gong1]
骊黄牝牡	li	mu	a black stallion or possibly a yellow mare (idiom); don't judge by outward appearance
验光师	yan	shi	optometrist
验光法	yan	fa	optometry; eyesight testing
验光配镜业	yan	ye	optometry; eyesight testing
验光配镜法	yan	fa	optometry; eyesight testing
验孕棒	yan	bang	home pregnancy test kit
验尸官	yan	guan	coroner
验明正身	yan	shen	to identify; to verify sb's identity; identification
验电器	yan	qi	electroscope
验证码	yan	ma	verification code; CAPTCHA, a type of challenge-response test (computing)
验钞器	yan	qi	money counter and counterfeit detection machine
验钞机	yan	ji	a device used to check money and detect counterfeit bills
骑田岭	qi	ling	Qitian mountain range between south Hunan and Guangdong
骑脖子拉屎	qi	shi	(lit.) to take a dump while riding on sb's shoulders (saying); (fig.) to treat sb like garbage
骑虎难下	qi	xia	if you ride a tiger, it's hard to get off (idiom); fig. impossible to stop halfway
骑警队	qi	dui	mounted police detachment (on horse or motorbike)
骑都尉	qi	wei	(archaic) cavalry commandant; cavalry captain
骑马找马	qi	ma	(idiom) (coll.) to continue in an unsatisfactory job (or romantic relationship etc) while actively looking for a better one
骑驴找马	qi	ma	(idiom) (coll.) to continue in an unsatisfactory job (or romantic relationship etc) while actively looking for a better one
骑驴找驴	qi	lv	lit. to search for the mule while riding on it (idiom); fig. to look for what one already has
骑驴觅驴	qi	lv	see 騎驢找驢|骑驴找驴[qi2 lu:2 zhao3 lu:2]
骑鹤上扬州	qi	zhou	lit. to ride a crane to Yangzhou (idiom); to get an official position
骑鹤化	qi	hua	(Daoism) to die
骚乱者	sao	zhe	a rioter
骚扰客蚤	sao	zao	Xenopsylla vexabilis
骡马大车	luo	che	mule and horse carts
骤死式	zhou	shi	sudden death style play-off (sporting competition)
骨关节炎	gu	yan	osteoarthritis
骨咄禄	gu	lu	Qutlugh (?–691), founder of the Second Turkic Khaganate
骨头架子	gu	zi	skeleton; skinny person; a mere skeleton
骨头节儿	gu	r	joint (of the skeleton)
骨子里	gu	li	beneath the surface; fundamentally; at the deepest level
骨干网路	gu	lu	backbone network
骨水泥	gu	ni	bone cement; orthopedic cement
骨灰盒	gu	he	box for bone ashes; funerary casket
骨灰龛	gu	kan	columbarium
骨牌效应	gu	ying	domino effect; ripple effect
骨痛热症	gu	zheng	Dengue fever; breakbone fever
骨瘦如柴	gu	chai	(idiom) as thin as a match; emaciated
骨瘦如豺	gu	chai	variant of 骨瘦如柴[gu3 shou4 ru2 chai2]
骨盆底	gu	di	pelvic floor (anatomy)
骨碌碌	gu	lu	(onom.) rolling around; spinning; also pr. [gu1lu1lu1]; Taiwan pr. [gu2lu4lu5]
骨肉相残	gu	can	close kindred slaughter one another (idiom); internecine strife
骨肉相连	gu	lian	lit. interrelated as bones and flesh (idiom); inseparably related; closely intertwined
骨肥厚	gu	hou	hyperostosis (abnormal thickening of bone)
骨胶原	gu	yuan	collagen (protein)
骨质增生	gu	sheng	(medicine) hyperostosis
骨质疏松	gu	song	osteoporosis
骨质疏松症	gu	zheng	osteoporosis
骨都都	gu	dou	(onom.) for plopping sound
骨顶鸡	gu	ji	(bird species of China) Eurasian coot (Fulica atra)
骨骺线	gu	xian	(anatomy) epiphyseal line
骨骼肌	gu	ji	striated muscle
骨髓增生异常综合征	gu	zheng	myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS)
骨髓移植	gu	zhi	(medicine) bone marrow transplant
骨髓腔	gu	qiang	(anatomy) medullary cavity; marrow cavity of a bone
骨鲠之臣	gu	chen	lit. fish bone of a minister (idiom); fig. person one can rely on for candid criticism
骨鲠在喉	gu	hou	fish bone stuck in one's throat (idiom); fig. to feel obliged to speak out candidly; sth on one's mind
骷髅头	ku	tou	a death's-head; depiction of a dead person's skull
骺软骨板	hou	ban	epiphyseal plate; growth plate (bone)
髋关节	kuan	jie	pelvis; hip joint
髓过氧化物酶	sui	mei	myeloperoxidase (aka MPO) (molecular biology)
高不凑低不就	gao	jiu	can't reach the high or accept the low (idiom); not good enough for a high post, but too proud to take a low one
高不可攀	gao	pan	too high to reach (idiom); eminent and unapproachable
高不成低不就	gao	jiu	can't reach the high or accept the low (idiom); not good enough for a high post, but too proud to take a low one
高个子	gao	zi	tall person; (of a person) tall
高中学生	gao	sheng	student of a senior high school
高中生	gao	sheng	senior high school student
高丽八万大藏经	gao	jing	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
高丽参	gao	shen	Koryo ginseng
高丽大藏经	gao	jing	Tripitaka Koreana, Buddhist scriptures carved on 81,340 wooden tablets and housed in the Haein Temple 海印寺[Hai3 yin4 si4] in South Gyeongsang province of South Korea
高丽朝	gao	chao	Korean Goryeo dynasty, 918-1392
高丽棒子	gao	zi	Korean (derog.)
高丽王朝	gao	chao	Korean Goryeo Dynasty, 918-1392
高丽菜	gao	cai	cabbage (Brassica oleracea var. capitata) (CL:顆|颗[ke1]); Taiwan pr. [gao1li4cai4]
高举远蹈	gao	dao	to leave office for a high and distant place (idiom); to retire and place oneself above the fray
高人一等	gao	deng	a cut above others; superior
高仙芝	gao	zhi	Gao Xianzhi or Go Seonji (c. 702-756), Tang dynasty general of Goguryeo 高句麗|高句丽[Gao1 gou1 li2] extraction, active in Central Asia
高位截瘫	gao	tan	(medicine) high paraplegia
高低不就	gao	jiu	can't reach the high or accept the low (idiom); not good enough for a high post, but too proud to take a low one
高低杠	gao	gang	uneven bars (gymnastics)
高低潮	gao	chao	the tide; high and low water
高体鳑鲏	gao	pi	Rhodeus ocellatus (small carp)
高保真	gao	zhen	high fidelity; hi-fi
高光时刻	gao	ke	highlight; glorious moment
高八度	gao	du	an octave higher (music)
高分低能	gao	neng	high in score but low in ability (as a result of teaching to the test)
高分子	gao	zi	macromolecule; polymer
高分子化学	gao	xue	polymer chemistry
高分辨率	gao	lv	high resolution
高利贷	gao	dai	high-interest loan; usury
高加索	gao	suo	Caucasus; Caucasian
高加索山脉	gao	mai	Caucasus Mountains
高勾丽	gao	li	variant of 高句麗|高句丽[Gao1 gou1 li2]
高卡车	gao	che	(loanword) go-kart
高卢语	gao	yu	Gaulish or Gallic (language)
高压手段	gao	duan	high-handed (measures); with a heavy hand
高压氧	gao	yang	hyperbaric oxygen; hyperbaric oxygenation; also abbr. for 高壓氧治療|高压氧治疗[gao1 ya1 yang3 zhi4 liao2], hyperbaric therapy
高压氧治疗	gao	liao	hyperbaric medicine; hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT); also 高壓氧療法|高压氧疗法[gao1 ya1 yang3 liao2 fa3]
高压氧疗法	gao	fa	hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT); also 高壓氧治療|高压氧治疗[gao1 ya1 yang3 zhi4 liao2]
高压清洗机	gao	ji	high pressure washer
高压电	gao	dian	high voltage
高压线	gao	xian	high tension power line
高压锅	gao	guo	pressure cooker
高原反应	gao	ying	altitude sickness
高原山鹑	gao	chun	(bird species of China) Tibetan partridge (Perdix hodgsoniae)
高原岩鹨	gao	liu	(bird species of China) Altai accentor (Prunella himalayana)
高叉泳装	gao	zhuang	high leg swimsuit
高发人群	gao	qun	(medicine) high-risk group
高句丽	gao	li	Goguryeo (37 BC-668 AD), one of the Korean Three Kingdoms
高台县	gao	xian	Gaotai, a county in Zhangye City 張掖市|张掖市[Zhang1 ye4 Shi4], Gansu
高唐县	gao	xian	Gaotang, a county in Liaocheng City 聊城市[Liao2 cheng2 Shi4], Shandong
高唱入云	gao	yun	loud songs reaches the clouds (idiom); fig. to praise to the skies
高坪区	gao	qu	Gaoping, a district of Nanchong City 南充市[Nan2 chong1 Shi4], Sichuan
高城深池	gao	chi	high walls and deep moat (idiom); impenetrable defense
高处不胜寒	gao	han	it's lonely at the top (idiom)
高大上	gao	shang	(slang) high-end, elegant, and classy; abbr. for 高端大氣上檔次|高端大气上档次
高头大马	gao	ma	(idiom) tall, imposing horse; (of a person) tall and well-built
高学历	gao	li	higher education record; record including Master's or Doctoral degree
高安市	gao	shi	Gao'an, a county-level city in Yichun City 宜春市[Yi2 chun1 Shi4], Jiangxi
高官厚禄	gao	lu	high post and generous salary (idiom); promotion to a high official position
高官显爵	gao	jue	high ranking
高密市	gao	shi	Gaomi, a county-level city in Weifang City 濰坊市|潍坊市[Wei2 fang1 Shi4], Shandong
高富帅	gao	shuai	"Mr Perfect" (i.e. tall, rich and handsome) (Internet slang)
高射机枪	gao	qiang	anti-aircraft machine gun; CL:架[jia4]
高射炮	gao	pao	anti-aircraft gun
高尔基	gao	ji	Gorkii (name); Maxim Gorkii (1868-1936), Russian proletarian writer and propagandist
高尔基体	gao	ti	Golgi apparatus
高尔基复合体	gao	ti	Golgi complex (in cell biology)
高尔夫	gao	fu	(loanword) golf
高尔夫球	gao	qiu	golf; golf ball
高尔夫球场	gao	chang	golf course
高尔察克	gao	ke	Aleksandr Kolchak (1874-1920), Russian naval commander, head of anti-Bolshevik White forces
高层云	gao	yun	altostratus; high stratus cloud
高层建筑	gao	zhu	high-rise building; skyscraper
高层执行员	gao	yuan	senior executive
高山兀鹫	gao	jiu	(bird species of China) Himalayan vulture (Gyps himalayensis)
高山区	gao	qu	alpine district
高山岭雀	gao	que	(bird species of China) Brandt's mountain finch (Leucosticte brandti)
高山旋木雀	gao	que	(bird species of China) bar-tailed treecreeper (Certhia himalayana)
高山族	gao	zu	Gaoshan aborigines (Taiwan), "mountain tribes" (Tw); Taiwanese aborigines (PRC)
高山病	gao	bing	altitude sickness; acute mountain sickness
高山症	gao	zheng	altitude sickness; acute mountain sickness
高山短翅莺	gao	ying	(bird species of China) russet bush warbler (Locustella mandelli)
高山金翅雀	gao	que	(bird species of China) yellow-breasted greenfinch (Chloris spinoides)
高山雀鹛	gao	mei	(bird species of China) Chinese fulvetta (Fulvetta striaticollis)
高岭土	gao	tu	kaolin (clay); china clay
高岸深谷	gao	gu	high bank, deep valley (idiom); secluded location
高峰会	gao	hui	summit meeting
高峰会议	gao	yi	summit conference
高峰期	gao	qi	peak period; rush hour
高州市	gao	shi	Gaozhou, a county-level city in Maoming City 茂名市[Mao4 ming2 Shi4], Guangdong
高帽子	gao	zi	tall conical paper hat worn as a public humiliation; dunce cap; (fig.) flattery
高平市	gao	shi	Gaoping, a county-level city in Jincheng City 晉城市|晋城市[Jin4 cheng2 Shi4], Shanxi; Cao Bang, a city in northern Vietnam
高年级生	gao	sheng	senior student
高弓足	gao	zu	high-arched feet
高德纳	gao	na	the Chinese name of American computer scientist Donald Knuth (1938-), adopted prior to his visit to China in 1977
高性能	gao	neng	high performance
高手如云	gao	yun	(idiom) teeming with experts
高才生	gao	sheng	variant of 高材生[gao1 cai2 sheng1]
高技术	gao	shu	high technology; high-tech
高抬贵手	gao	shou	to be generous (idiom); to be magnanimous; Give me a break!
高挑子	gao	zi	tall person
高接梨	gao	li	(Tw) high-grafted pear (a variety of Asian pear grown in Taiwan, produced by grafting scions from high-altitude or high-latitude regions onto local rootstocks, adapting them to Taiwan's subtropical climate)
高攀不上	gao	shang	to be unworthy to associate with (sb of higher social status)
高效率	gao	lv	high efficiency
高效能	gao	neng	highly efficient; effectivity
高教机	gao	ji	advanced trainer aircraft (abbr. for 高級教練機|高级教练机[gao1 ji2 jiao4 lian4 ji1])
高新技术	gao	shu	high tech; high technology
高昌区	gao	qu	Gaochang, a district of Turpan City 吐魯番市|吐鲁番市[Tu3 lu3 fan1 Shi4], Xinjiang
高明区	gao	qu	Gaoming, a district of Foshan City 佛山市[Fo2 shan1 Shi4], Guangdong
高朋满座	gao	zuo	surrounded by distinguished friends (idiom); in company
高本汉	gao	han	Bernhard Karlgren (1889-1978), distinguished Swedish linguist and sinologist
高材生	gao	sheng	top student; high achiever; student of outstanding ability
高村正彦	gao	yan	KOMURA Masahiko (1942-), Japanese politician, foreign minister from 1998, minister of defense from 2007
高枕无忧	gao	you	to sleep peacefully (idiom); (fig.) to rest easy; to be free of worries
高果糖浆	gao	jiang	high-fructose corn syrup
高果糖玉米糖浆	gao	jiang	high-fructose corn syrup (HFCS)
高架桥	gao	qiao	high trestle bridge; viaduct; flyover
高架道路	gao	lu	elevated road
高档服装	gao	zhuang	haute couture; high fashion clothing
高桥留美子	gao	zi	Takahashi Rumiko, Japanese manga artist
高楼大厦	gao	sha	tall building
高歌猛进	gao	jin	to advance singing loudly (idiom); triumphant progress
高浓缩铀	gao	you	highly enriched uranium (HEU)
高深莫测	gao	ce	profound mystery
高淳区	gao	qu	Gaochun, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu
高清晰度	gao	du	high definition (instruments); high resolution
高清电视	gao	shi	high definition television HDTV
高港区	gao	qu	Gaogang, a district of Taizhou City 泰州市[Tai4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
高潮迭起	gao	qi	each new high point replaced by another; (of a movie etc) one climax after another
高热病	gao	bing	fever; high fever
高热量	gao	liang	high calorie (foodstuff); high heat content
高球场	gao	chang	(HK, Tw) golf course; golf links
高球杯	gao	bei	highball glass
高甲戏	gao	xi	Gaojia opera of Fujian and Taiwan
高畑勋	gao	xun	Isao Takahata (1935-2018), co-founder of Studio Ghibli
高瞻远瞩	gao	zhu	to stand tall and see far (idiom); taking the long and broad view; acute foresight
高矮胖瘦	gao	shou	one's physique (tall or short, thin or fat); stature
高碑店	gao	dian	see 高碑店市[Gao1 bei1 dian4 Shi4]
高碑店市	gao	shi	Gaobeidian, a county-level city in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
高祖母	gao	mu	great-great-grandmother
高祖父	gao	fu	great-great-grandfather
高科技	gao	ji	high tech; high technology
高积云	gao	yun	altocumulus; high cumulus cloud
高空作业	gao	ye	to work high above the ground
高空俱乐部	gao	bu	Mile High Club
高空弹跳	gao	tiao	bungee jumping (Tw)
高空病	gao	bing	high altitude sickness
高等代数	gao	shu	higher algebra
高等学校	gao	xiao	colleges and universities
高等教育	gao	yu	higher education
高等法院	gao	yuan	High Court
高筋面粉	gao	fen	bread flour; hard flour
高筒靴	gao	xue	tall boots
高精度	gao	du	high precision
高纤维	gao	wei	high fiber
高级专员	gao	yuan	high commissioner
高级中学	gao	xue	senior high school
高级小学	gao	xue	upper primary school; upper stage of primary education
高级职务	gao	wu	high position; senior post
高级职员	gao	yuan	high official; senior executive
高级语言	gao	yan	(computing) high-level language
高纬度	gao	du	high latitude (i.e. near the poles)
高维代数簇	gao	cu	(math.) higher dimensional algebraic variety
高维空间	gao	jian	(math.) higher dimensional space
高罗佩	gao	pei	Gao Luopei or R.H. van Gulik (1910-1967), Dutch sinologist, diplomat and writer
高考移民	gao	min	students who relocate to another region of China in order to gain an advantage on the college entrance exam
高耸入云	gao	yun	tall and erect, reaching through the clouds (idiom); used to describe tall mountain or skyscraper
高职院校	gao	xiao	professional school; higher vocational school
高聚物	gao	wu	polymer
高能粒子	gao	zi	high energy particle
高能量	gao	liang	high energy (physics)
高脂血症	gao	zheng	high blood fat disease; hyperlipidemia; hypertriglyceridemia
高脚杯	gao	bei	goblet
高脚椅	gao	yi	tall chair; bar stool; (child's) high chair
高致病性	gao	xing	highly pathenogenic
高良姜	gao	jiang	Thai ginger; lesser galangale (Kaempferia galanga)
高薪养廉	gao	lian	policy of high pay to discourage corruption
高薪厚禄	gao	lu	high salary, generous remuneration
高薪聘请	gao	qing	to hire at a high salary
高薪酬	gao	chou	high salary
高血压	gao	ya	high blood pressure; hypertension
高血糖	gao	tang	hyperglycemia; abnormally high blood sugar level
高血脂	gao	zhi	see 高脂血症[gao1 zhi1 xue4 zheng4]
高行健	gao	jian	Gao Xingjian (1940-), Chinese novelist and Nobel laureate, author of Soul Mountain 靈山|灵山
高要区	gao	qu	Gaoyao, a district of Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
高视阔步	gao	bu	to strut about
高谈阔论	gao	lun	to harangue; loud arrogant talk; to spout
高质量	gao	liang	high quality
高贵鸡	gao	ji	(Tw) (slang) snobbish, pretentious gay person
高跟鞋	gao	xie	high-heeled shoes
高跷鹬	gao	yu	(bird species of China) stilt sandpiper (Calidris himantopus)
高辛氏	gao	shi	one of the five legendary emperors, also called 嚳|喾[Ku4]
高通公司	gao	si	Qualcomm
高速公路	gao	lu	expressway; highway; freeway
高速挡	gao	dang	top gear; high gear
高速率	gao	lv	high speed
高速缓冲存储器	gao	qi	(computing) cache
高速缓存	gao	cun	(computing) cache
高速网络	gao	luo	high speed network
高速路	gao	lu	highway; expressway (abbr. for 高速公路[gao1 su4 gong1 lu4])
高逼格	gao	ge	(slang) high-end; classy
高邑县	gao	xian	Gaoyi, a county in Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
高邮市	gao	shi	Gaoyou, a county-level city in Yangzhou City 揚州市|扬州市[Yang2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu
高铁血红蛋白	gao	bai	methemoglobin
高锰酸钾	gao	jia	potassium permanganate
高阳县	gao	xian	Gaoyang, a county in Baoding City 保定市[Bao3 ding4 Shi4], Hebei
高阶语言	gao	yan	(computing) high-level language (Tw, HK, Macau)
高陵区	gao	qu	Gaoling, a district of Xi'an City 西安市[Xi1 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
高雄市	gao	shi	Kaohsiung or Gaoxiong city in south Taiwan
高露洁	gao	jie	Colgate (brand)
高青县	gao	xian	Gaoqing, a county in Zibo City 淄博市[Zi1 bo2 Shi4], Shandong
高音喇叭	gao	ba	tweeter
高音部	gao	bu	soprano part
高风亮节	gao	jie	of noble character and unquestionable integrity (idiom)
高风峻节	gao	jie	a high-class upright character (idiom)
高风险	gao	xian	high risk
高飞远走	gao	zou	see 遠走高飛|远走高飞[yuan3 zou3 gao1 fei1]
高高低低	gao	di	high and low; uneven (in height); uneven (of ground)
高高兴兴	gao	xing	cheerful and optimistic; in a good mood; gaily
高高在上	gao	shang	(idiom) situated high; aloft; (idiom) (fig.) aloof and remote; situated above the masses and out of touch with reality
高高手	gao	shou	Please do not be too severe on me!
高高手儿	gao	r	Please do not be too severe on me!
鬼使神差	gui	chai	demons and gods at work (idiom); unexplained event crying out for a supernatural explanation; curious coincidence
鬼剃头	gui	tou	spot baldness (alopecia areata)
鬼压床	gui	chuang	(coll.) sleep paralysis
鬼压身	gui	shen	see 鬼壓床|鬼压床[gui3 ya1 chuang2]
鬼名堂	gui	tang	dirty trick; monkey business
鬼哭狼嚎	gui	hao	(idiom) to wail and scream loudly
鬼天气	gui	qi	awful weather
鬼头鬼脑	gui	nao	sneaky; furtive
鬼怕恶人	gui	ren	lit. ghosts are afraid of evil too; an evil person fears someone even more evil (idiom)
鬼才信	gui	xin	who would believe it!; what rubbish!
鬼扯腿	gui	tui	unable to restrain oneself; pulling and tugging at each other
鬼把戏	gui	xi	sinister plot; dirty trick; cheap trick
鬼探头	gui	tou	(coll.) sudden emergence of a person or vehicle from a blind spot (esp. into oncoming traffic)
鬼摸脑壳	gui	ke	(idiom) muddled; momentarily confused
鬼故事	gui	shi	ghost story
鬼斧神工	gui	gong	supernaturally fine craft (idiom); the work of the Gods; uncanny workmanship; superlative craftsmanship
鬼火绿	gui	lv	(dialect) flaming mad; furious
鬼由心生	gui	sheng	devils are born in the heart (idiom); fears originate in the mind
鬼画符	gui	fu	undecipherable handwriting; scribblings; (fig.) hypocritical talk
鬼计多端	gui	duan	variant of 詭計多端|诡计多端[gui3 ji4 duo1 duan1]
鬼话连篇	gui	pian	to tell one lie after another (idiom); to talk nonsense; bogus story
鬼迷心窍	gui	qiao	to be obsessed; to be possessed
鬼遮眼	gui	yan	selective blindness caused by a ghost, whereby one fails to notice obvious dangers
鬼针草	gui	cao	beggarticks (Bidens pilosa)
鬼门关	gui	guan	the gates of hell
鬼鬼祟祟	gui	sui	(idiom) sneaky; secretive; furtive
魁北克	kui	ke	Quebec province, Canada
魁北克市	kui	shi	Quebec city, capital of Quebec province of Canada
魁星阁	kui	ge	temple to Kuixing, Daoist God of fate
魂不守舍	hun	she	to be preoccupied (idiom); to be inattentive; to be frightened out of one's mind
魂不附体	hun	ti	lit. body and soul separated (idiom); fig. scared out of one's wits; beside oneself
魂牵梦绕	hun	rao	see 魂牽夢縈|魂牵梦萦[hun2 qian1 meng4 ying2]
魂牵梦萦	hun	ying	(idiom) to miss very much; to yearn for
魂飞魄散	hun	san	lit. the soul flies away and scatters (idiom); fig. to be frightened stiff; spooked out of one's mind
魅力四射	mei	she	glamorous; charming; seductive
魍魉鬼怪	wang	guai	malevolent spirits
魏京生	wei	sheng	Wei Jingsheng (1950-), Beijing-based Chinese dissident, imprisoned 1978-1993 and 1995-1997, released to the US in 1997
魏伯阳	wei	yang	Wei Boyang (c. 100-170), Chinese author and alchemist
魏德迈	wei	mai	Wedemeyer (name); Albert Coady Wedemeyer (1897-1989), US Army commander
魏忠贤	wei	xian	Wei Zhongxian (1568-1627), infamous eunuch politician of late Ming
魏文帝	wei	di	Cao Pi 曹丕, emperor of Wei 220-226
魏晋南北朝	wei	chao	Wei, Jin and North-South dynasties; generic term for historic period 220-589 between Han and Sui
魏格纳	wei	na	Alfred Wegener (1880-1930), German meteorologist and geophysicist, the originator of the theory of continental drift
魏都区	wei	qu	Weidu, a district of Xuchang City 許昌市|许昌市[Xu3 chang1 Shi4], Henan
魑魅魍魉	chi	liang	(idiom) all kinds of malevolent or mischievous spirits
魔兽世界	mo	jie	World of Warcraft (video game)
魔宫传奇	mo	qi	The Name of the Rose, 1986 movie based on the novel by Umberto Eco
魔术师	mo	shi	magician
魔术方块	mo	kuai	Rubik's cube; magic cube
魔术棒	mo	bang	magic wand
魔术贴	mo	tie	velcro
魔法师	mo	shi	magician; wizard; sorcerer
魔王撒旦	mo	dan	Satan, Devil king
魔羯座	mo	zuo	Capricorn (constellation and sign of the zodiac)
魔鬼岛	mo	dao	Devil's Island in French Guiana, a former penal colony (1852-1953)
魔鬼椒	mo	jiao	ghost pepper
魔鬼毡	mo	zhan	(Tw) Velcro fastener; touch fastener
魔鬼粘	mo	zhan	(Tw) Velcro fastener; touch fastener
魔鬼鱼	mo	yu	(coll.) ray (esp. manta ray or stingray)
鱼与熊掌	yu	zhang	lit. the fish and the bear's paw, you can't have both at the same time (idiom, from Mencius); fig. you must choose one or the other; you can't always get everything you want; you can't have your cake and eat it
鱼与熊掌不可兼得	yu	de	lit. the fish and the bear's paw, you can't have both at the same time (idiom, from Mencius); fig. you must choose one or the other; you can't always get everything you want; you can't have your cake and eat it
鱼丽阵	yu	zhen	(archaic) formation of infantrymen led by chariots
鱼台县	yu	xian	Yutai, a county in Jining City 濟寧市|济宁市[Ji3 ning2 Shi4], Shandong
鱼嘴鞋	yu	xie	open-toed shoe; peep-toe
鱼子酱	yu	jiang	caviar
鱼尾板	yu	ban	fishplate (in railway engineering)
鱼尾纹	yu	wen	crow's feet
鱼峰区	yu	qu	Yufeng, a district of Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
鱼干女	yu	nv	see 乾物女|干物女[gan1 wu4 nu:3]
鱼死网破	yu	po	lit. either the fish dies or the net splits; a life and death struggle (idiom)
鱼水之欢	yu	huan	the pleasure of close intimacy in a couple (idiom); sexual intercourse
鱼水情	yu	qing	close relationship as between fish and water
鱼汛期	yu	qi	variant of 漁汛期|渔汛期[yu2 xun4 qi1]
鱼沉雁杳	yu	yao	lit. the fish swam away into the depths, the goose vanished in the distance (idiom); fig. to have had no news (of sb who went away); to have lost contact
鱼目混珠	yu	zhu	to pass off fish eyes for pearls; to pass off fake products as genuine (idiom)
鱼米之乡	yu	xiang	(lit.) land of fish and rice; (fig.) fertile region; land of milk and honey
鱼类学	yu	xue	ichthyology
鱼翅汤	yu	tang	shark fin soup
鱼翅瓜	yu	gua	spaghetti squash (Cucurbita pepo)
鱼肉百姓	yu	xing	to prey on the people
鱼肚白	yu	bai	fish-belly white (used to describe the dingy light of the dawn sky)
鱼肝油	yu	you	cod liver oil
鱼腥草	yu	cao	chameleon plant; fish mint (Houttuynia cordata)
鱼贯而入	yu	ru	to walk in in a line
鱼贯而出	yu	chu	to file out; to walk out in a line
鱼钩儿	yu	r	erhua variant of 魚鉤|鱼钩[yu2 gou1]
鱼雷艇	yu	ting	torpedo boat
鱼香肉丝	yu	si	pork strips stir-fried with yuxiang 魚香|鱼香[yu2 xiang1]
鱼龙混杂	yu	za	lit. fish and dragons mixed in together (idiom); fig. crooks mixed in with the honest folk
鲁佛尔宫	lu	gong	the Louvre
鲁凯族	lu	zu	Rukai, one of the indigenous peoples of Taiwan
鲁国人	lu	ren	person from Shandong; often refers to Confucius
鲁子敬	lu	jing	Lu Zijing or Lu Su 魯肅|鲁肃 (172-217), statesman, diplomat and strategist of Eastern Wu 東吳|东吴
鲁尔区	lu	qu	the Ruhr, region in Germany
鲁尔河	lu	he	Ruhr River, a tributary of the Rhine in Germany
鲁山县	lu	xian	Lushan, a county in Pingdingshan City 平頂山市|平顶山市[Ping2 ding3 shan1 Shi4], Henan
鲁德维格	lu	ge	Ludwig (name); Ludovic (name)
鲁棒性	lu	xing	robustness
鲁特啤酒	lu	jiu	root beer
鲁特琴	lu	qin	(loanword) lute
鲁甸县	lu	xian	Ludian, a county in Zhaotong City 昭通市[Zhao1 tong1 Shi4], Yunnan
鲁米诺	lu	nuo	(chemistry) (loanword) luminol
鲅鱼圈	ba	quan	see 鮁魚圈區|鲅鱼圈区[Ba4 yu2 quan1 Qu1]
鲅鱼圈区	ba	qu	Bayuquan, a district of Yingkou City 營口市|营口市[Ying2 kou3 Shi4], Liaoning
鲍威尔	bao	er	Powell (name)
鲍德里亚	bao	ya	Jean Baudrillard (1929-2007), French cultural theorist and philosopher
鲍狄埃	bao	ai	Eugène Edine Pottier (1816-1887), French revolutionary socialist and poet
鲍罗丁	bao	ding	Borodin (name); Alexander Borodin (1833-1887), Russian chemist and composer
鲍罗廷	bao	ting	Borodin (name); Alexander Porfirevich Borodin (1833-1887), Russian chemist and composer
鲔鱼肚	wei	du	(cuisine) tuna belly; (Tw) (fig.) (coll.) potbelly; paunch
鲜为人知	xian	zhi	rarely known to anyone (idiom); almost unknown; secret to all but a few
鲜卑族	xian	zu	Xianbei or Xianbi, historic ethnic group of northern nomads
鲜啤酒	xian	jiu	draft beer; unpasteurized beer
鲜奶油	xian	you	cream; whipped cream
鲜明个性	xian	xing	individuality; clear-cut personality
鲜橙多	xian	duo	Xianchengduo, Chinese brand of orange-flavored soft drink
鲜活货物	xian	wu	live cargo
鲜花插在牛粪上	xian	shang	lit. a bunch of flowers poked into a pile of manure; fig. a terrible shame (as when a lovely woman marries an odious man)
鲜血淋漓	xian	li	(idiom) drenched with blood; dripping with blood
鲤城区	li	qu	Licheng, a district of Quanzhou City 泉州市[Quan2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
鲤鱼打挺	li	ting	(martial arts, gymnastics) to kip up (spring upright from supine without hands); (fig.) to jolt upright
鲤鱼旗	li	qi	koinobori, a Japanese carp-shaped windsock flown to celebrate Children's Day
鲤鱼跳龙门	li	men	to make a significant advance in one's career (idiom); to get one's big break
鲮鲤甲	ling	jia	pangolin (Manis pentadactylata); scaly ant-eater
鲮鲤科	ling	ke	the pangolin family
鲲鹏展翅	kun	chi	lit. the giant Peng bird spreads its wings and begins to fly; displaying awesome power and momentum at the outset; to have the world at one's feet
鲷鱼烧	diao	shao	taiyaki, Japanese-style waffle made with a fish-shaped mold, typically filled with a sweet bean paste
鲸头鹳	jing	guan	shoebill stork (Balaeniceps rex)
鲸鱼座	jing	zuo	Cetus (constellation)
鲻鱼头	zi	tou	mullet (hairstyle)
鳄梨酱	e	jiang	guacamole
鳄鱼夹	e	jia	crocodile clip; spring clip
鳄鱼眼泪	e	lei	crocodile tears
鳌背负山	ao	shan	debt as heavy as a mountain on a turtle's back
鳍状肢	qi	zhi	flipper
鳏寡孤独	guan	du	(lit.) widowers, widows, orphans and the childless (idiom); (fig.) people with no one left to rely on
鳞喉绿啄木鸟	lin	niao	(bird species of China) streak-throated woodpecker (Picus xanthopygaeus)
鳞次栉比	lin	bi	row upon row
鳞状细胞癌	lin	ai	squamous cell carcinoma
鳞翅目	lin	mu	Lepidoptera (insect order including butterflies 蝶類|蝶类 and moths 蛾類|蛾类)
鳞胸鹪鹛	lin	mei	(bird species of China) scaly-breasted cupwing; scaly-breasted wren-babbler (Pnoepyga albiventer)
鳞腹绿啄木鸟	lin	niao	(bird species of China) scaly-bellied woodpecker (Picus squamatus)
鸟不拉屎	niao	shi	(lit.) (a place where) birds don't defecate; (fig.) (of a place) remote and desolate
鸟不生蛋	niao	dan	(lit.) (a place where) birds don't lay eggs; (fig.) (of a place) remote and desolate
鸟兽散	niao	san	to scatter like birds and beasts
鸟嘌呤	niao	ling	guanine nucleotide (G, pairs with cytosine C 胞嘧啶 in DNA and RNA)
鸟尽弓藏	niao	cang	lit. the birds are over, the bow is put away (idiom); fig. to get rid of sb once he has served his purpose
鸟尾蛤	niao	ge	cockle (mollusk of the family Cardiidae)
鸟枪换炮	niao	pao	bird shotgun replaced by cannon (idiom); equipment improved enormously
鸟澡盆	niao	pen	birdbath
鸟疫衣原体	niao	ti	Chlamydia ornithosis
鸟瞰图	niao	tu	bird's-eye view; see also 俯瞰圖|俯瞰图[fu3 kan4 tu2]
鸟类学	niao	xue	ornithology; study of birds
鸟胺酸	niao	suan	(Tw) ornithine
鸟脚下目	niao	mu	Ornithopoda, suborder of herbivorous dinosaurs including iguanodon
鸟脚亚目	niao	mu	Ornithopoda (suborder of herbivorous dinosaurs)
鸟苷酸二钠	niao	na	disodium guanylate (E627)
鸟虫书	niao	shu	bird writing, a calligraphic style based on seal script 篆書|篆书[zhuan4 shu1], but with characters decorated as birds and insects
鸟语花香	niao	xiang	lit. birdsong and fragrant flowers (idiom); fig. the intoxication of a beautiful spring day
鸠山由纪夫	jiu	fu	Hatoyama Yukio (1947-), Japanese Democratic Party politician, prime minister 2009-2010
鸠摩罗什	jiu	shi	Kumarajiva c. 334-413, Buddhist monk and translator of Zen texts
鸠江区	jiu	qu	Jiujiang, a district of Wuhu City 蕪湖市|芜湖市[Wu2 hu2 Shi4], Anhui
鸡东县	ji	xian	Jidong, a county in Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
鸡内金	ji	jin	chicken gizzard lining
鸡冠区	ji	qu	Jiguan, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
鸡冠花	ji	hua	cockscomb flower; Celosia cristata
鸡同鸭讲	ji	jiang	lit. chicken speaking with duck; fig. talking without communicating; people not understanding each other
鸡头米	ji	mi	Gorgon fruit; Semen euryales (botany); see also 芡實|芡实[qian4 shi2]
鸡子儿	ji	r	(coll.) hen's egg
鸡尾酒	ji	jiu	(calque) cocktail
鸡尾锯	ji	ju	keyhole saw; pad saw
鸡心领	ji	ling	(of clothing) V-neck
鸡柳条	ji	tiao	(Tw) chicken strips
鸡母虫	ji	chong	beetle larva
鸡毛店	ji	dian	a simple inn with only chicken feathers to sleep on
鸡毛蒜皮	ji	pi	lit. chicken feathers and garlic skins (idiom); fig. trivial (matter)
鸡泽县	ji	xian	Jize, a county in Handan City 邯鄲市|邯郸市[Han2 dan1 Shi4], Hebei
鸡犬不宁	ji	ning	lit. not even the chickens and dogs are left undisturbed (idiom); fig. great commotion; pandemonium
鸡犬不留	ji	liu	(lit.) not even chickens and dogs are spared (idiom); (fig.) mass slaughter
鸡犬升天	ji	tian	(lit.) (when a person attains enlightenment and immortality), even his chickens and dogs will ascend to heaven with him (idiom); (fig.) (when somebody attains a position of power and influence), their relatives and friends also benefit; (2nd half of the saying 一人得道，雞犬升天|一人得道，鸡犬升天[yi1 ren2 de2 dao4 , ji1 quan3 sheng1 tian1])
鸡皮疙瘩	ji	da	goose pimples; goose bumps
鸡米花	ji	hua	chicken nuggets; popcorn chicken
鸡翅木	ji	mu	wenge or wengue (type of wood)
鸡胸肉	ji	rou	chicken breast
鸡腿菇	ji	gu	shaggy ink cap (edible mushroom); Coprinus comatus
鸡蛋壳儿	ji	r	eggshell
鸡蛋果	ji	guo	passion or egg fruit (Passiflora edulis)
鸡蛋清	ji	qing	egg white
鸡蛋炒饭	ji	fan	egg fried rice
鸡蛋碰石头	ji	tou	lit. an egg colliding with a rock (idiom); fig. to attack sb stronger than oneself; to overrate one's abilities
鸡蛋里挑骨头	ji	tou	to look for bones in an egg; to find fault; to nitpick (idiom)
鸡血石	ji	shi	bloodstone; red-fleck chalcedony; heliotrope (mineralogy)
鸡西市	ji	shi	Jixi, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
鸡零狗碎	ji	sui	in pieces
鸡霍乱	ji	luan	fowl cholera
鸡飞狗跳	ji	tiao	lit. chickens flying and dogs jumping (idiom); fig. in chaos; in disarray
鸡飞蛋打	ji	da	the chicken has flown the coop and the eggs are broken; a dead loss (idiom)
鸡鸣狗盗	ji	dao	crowing like a cock and stealing like a dog (idiom); bag of tricks; useful talents
鸢尾花	yuan	hua	iris (family Iridaceae)
鸣不平	ming	ping	to cry out against injustice; to protest unfairness
鸣冤叫屈	ming	qu	to complain bitterly
鸣角鸮	ming	xiao	Screech-owl (genus Megascops, a.k.a. Otus)
鸣金收兵	ming	bing	to beat the gong to recall troops (idiom); to order a retreat
鸣金收军	ming	jun	see 鳴金收兵|鸣金收兵[ming2 jin1 shou1 bing1]
鸣锣开道	ming	dao	to beat the gong to clear the way; (fig.) to pave the way for sth
鸥嘴噪鸥	ou	ou	(bird species of China) gull-billed tern (Gelochelidon nilotica)
鸦嘴卷尾	ya	wei	(bird species of China) crow-billed drongo (Dicrurus annectens)
鸦片战争	ya	zheng	the Opium War (1839–1842); the Opium Wars (1839–1842 and 1856–1860)
鸦片枪	ya	qiang	opium pipe
鸦雀无声	ya	sheng	lit. crow and peacock make no sound; absolute silence (idiom); not a single voice can be heard; absolute silence
鸭仔蛋	ya	dan	balut (boiled duck egg with a partly-developed embryo, which is eaten from the shell)
鸭嘴兽	ya	shou	platypus
鸭嘴龙	ya	long	hadrosaur (duck-billed dinosaur)
鸭子儿	ya	r	(coll.) duck's egg
鸭绿江	ya	jiang	Yalu River, forming part of the China-Korea border
鸭舌帽	ya	mao	peaked cap
鸭蛋青	ya	qing	pale blue
鸮鹦鹉	xiao	wu	kakapo (Strigops habroptila); owl parrot
鸲姬鹟	qu	weng	(bird species of China) mugimaki flycatcher (Ficedula mugimaki)
鸲岩鹨	qu	liu	(bird species of China) robin accentor (Prunella rubeculoides)
鸲蝗莺	qu	ying	(bird species of China) Savi's warbler (Locustella luscinioides)
鸳鸯戏水	yuan	shui	lit. mandarin ducks playing in the water; fig. to make love
鸳鸯浴	yuan	yu	taking a bath together as a couple
鸳鸯蝴蝶	yuan	die	Mandarin ducks and butterfly (i.e. love birds); derogatory reference to populist and romantic writing around 1900
鸳鸯蝴蝶派	yuan	pai	Mandarin ducks and butterfly (i.e. love birds) literary school around 1900, criticized as populist and romantic by socialist realists
鸳鸯锅	yuan	guo	"mandarin ducks" pot (hot pot with a divider, containing spicy soup on one side, mild soup on the other)
鸵鸟政策	tuo	ce	ostrich policy (sticking one's head in the sand, failing to acknowledge danger)
鸾翔凤翥	luan	zhu	(of calligraphy) full of power and grace
鸾翔凤集	luan	ji	lit. firebird and phoenix come together (idiom); fig. a gathering of eminent people
鸾飘凤泊	luan	bo	lit. firebird soars, phoenix alights (idiom); fig. bold, graceful calligraphy; married couple separated from each other
鸿喜菇	hong	gu	beech mushroom (Hypsizygus tessulatus), usually referring to the brown cultivated variety
鸿图大计	hong	ji	important large scale project
鸿毛泰山	hong	shan	lit. light as a goose feather, heavy as Mt Tai (idiom); fig. of no consequence to one person, a matter of life or death to another
鸿毛泰岱	hong	dai	light as a goose feather, heavy as Mt Tai (idiom); of no consequence to one person, a matter of life or death to another
鸿胪寺	hong	si	(archaic) office in charge of ceremony and protocol
鸿门宴	hong	yan	Hongmen feast; (fig.) banquet set up with the aim of murdering a guest; refers to a famous episode in 206 BC when future Han emperor Liu Bang 劉邦|刘邦[Liu2 Bang1] escaped attempted murder by his rival Xiang Yu 項羽|项羽[Xiang4 Yu3]
鹃形目	juan	mu	Cuculiformes, order of birds including cuckoo
鹅卵石	e	shi	pebble; cobblestone
鹅喉羚	e	ling	goitered gazelle (Gazella subgutturosa)
鹅掌楸	e	qiu	Chinese tulip tree; Liriodendron chinense
鹅毛大雪	e	xue	goose feather snow (idiom); big heavy snow fall
鹅毛笔	e	bi	quill pen
鹅膏蕈	e	xun	Amanita (genus of deadly mushrooms)
鹅膏蕈素	e	su	amanitin
鹅銮鼻	e	bi	Cape Eluanpi or Eluanbi, southernmost point of Taiwan Island
鹊巢鸠占	que	zhan	the magpie made a nest, the turtledove dwells in it (idiom); to reap where one has not sown
鹊色鹂	que	li	(bird species of China) silver oriole (Oriolus mellianus)
鹌鹑馉饳儿	an	r	a type of wonton made in a shape similar to that of a quail (in ancient times)
鹏程万里	peng	li	the fabled roc flies ten thousand miles (idiom); one's future prospects are brilliant
鹤佬人	he	ren	Hoklo people, southern Chinese people of Taiwan
鹤嘴锄	he	chu	pickax
鹤城区	he	qu	Hecheng, a district of Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
鹤壁市	he	shi	Hebi, prefecture-level city in Henan Province 河南省[He2 nan2 Sheng3]
鹤山区	he	qu	Heshan, a district of Hebi City 鶴壁市|鹤壁市[He4 bi4 Shi4], Henan
鹤山市	he	shi	Heshan, a county-level city in Jiangmen City 江門市|江门市[Jiang1 men2 Shi4], Guangdong
鹤岗市	he	shi	Hegang, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
鹤峰县	he	xian	Hefeng, a county in Enshi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 恩施土家族苗族自治州[En1 shi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hubei
鹤庆县	he	xian	Heqing, a county in Dali Bai Autonomous Prefecture 大理白族自治州[Da4 li3 Bai2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
鹤立鸡群	he	qun	a crane in a flock of chicken (idiom); way above the common; manifestly superior
鹦鹉学舌	ying	she	to parrot; to repeat uncritically what sb says
鹦鹉热	ying	re	psittacosis; ornithosis; parrot fever
鹦鹉螺	ying	luo	nautilus; ammonite (fossil spiral shell)
鹬蚌相争	yu	zheng	abbr. for 鷸蚌相爭，漁翁得利|鹬蚌相争，渔翁得利[yu4 bang4 xiang1 zheng1 , yu2 weng1 de2 li4]
鹬蚌相争渔翁得利	yu	li	lit. when the snipe and the clam grapple with each other, the fisherman catches them both (idiom); fig. when two sides are locked in dispute, it's often a third party that benefits
鹮嘴鹬	huan	yu	(bird species of China) ibisbill (Ibidorhyncha struthersii)
鹰击长空	ying	kong	the eagle soars in the sky (citation from Mao Zedong)
鹰嘴豆	ying	dou	chickpea (Cicer arietinum); garbanzo bean
鹰嘴豆泥	ying	ni	hummus
鹰头狮	ying	shi	griffin
鹰手营子	ying	zi	see 鷹手營子礦區|鹰手营子矿区[Ying1 shou3 ying2 zi5 Kuang4 qu1]
鹰手营子矿区	ying	qu	Yingshouyingzi Mining District, a district of Chengde City 承德市[Cheng2 de2 Shi4], Hebei
鹰星云	ying	yun	Eagle or Star Queen Nebula M16
鹰潭市	ying	shi	Yingtan, prefecture-level city in Jiangxi Province 江西省[Jiang1 xi1 Sheng3]
鹰爪翻子拳	ying	quan	Ying Zhua Fan Zi Quan - "Eagle Claw" - Martial Art
鹰状星云	ying	yun	Eagle or Star Queen Nebula M16
鹰钩鼻	ying	bi	aquiline nose; Roman nose
鹳嘴翡翠	guan	cui	(bird species of China) stork-billed kingfisher (Pelargopsis capensis)
鹿儿岛	lu	dao	Kagoshima, Japanese island prefecture off the south coast of Kyushu
鹿城区	lu	qu	Lucheng, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
鹿寨县	lu	xian	Luzhai, a county in Liuzhou City 柳州市[Liu3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
鹿死谁手	lu	shou	lit. at whose hand will the deer die (idiom); fig. who will emerge victorious
鹿泉区	lu	qu	Luquan, a district of Shijiazhuang City 石家莊市|石家庄市[Shi2 jia1 zhuang1 Shi4], Hebei
鹿特丹	lu	dan	Rotterdam, port city in the Netherlands
鹿苑寺	lu	si	Rokuonji in northwest Kyōto 京都, Japan; the formal name of Kinkakuji or Golden pavilion 金閣寺|金阁寺[Jin1 ge2 si4] as Buddhist temple
鹿角蕨	lu	jue	staghorn fern (genus Platycerium)
鹿豹座	lu	zuo	Camelopardalis (constellation)
鹿邑县	lu	xian	Luyi, a county in Zhoukou City 周口市[Zhou1 kou3 Shi4], Henan
麒麟区	qi	qu	Qilin, a district of Qujing City 曲靖市[Qu3 jing4 Shi4], Yunnan
麒麟座	qi	zuo	Monoceros constellation
麒麟殿	qi	dian	see 麒麟閣|麒麟阁[Qi2 lin2 Ge2]
麒麟菜	qi	cai	eucheuma, a type of red algae (used in TCM)
麒麟阁	qi	ge	Qilin Pavilion, located in the Weiyang Palace, a hall decorated with portraits of famous officials
麓湖公园	lu	yuan	Luhu Park in central Guangzhou
麝香猫	she	mao	civet (zoology)
麝香石竹	she	zhu	grenadine; carnation; clove pink
麝香草	she	cao	thyme
麟游县	lin	xian	Linyou, a county in Baoji City 寶雞市|宝鸡市[Bao3 ji1 Shi4], Shaanxi
麟角凤觜	lin	zui	lit. qilin's horn, phoenix's mouth (idiom); fig. rara avis; rarity
麦丽素	mai	su	Chinese chocolate-coated confectionery modeled on Maltesers 麥提莎|麦提莎[Mai4 ti2 sha1]
麦乳精	mai	jing	malt milk extract
麦克唐纳	mai	na	(name) MacDonald or McDonald
麦克德莫特	mai	te	McDermott (name)
麦克斯韦	mai	wei	Maxwell (name); James Clerk Maxwell (1831-1879), Scottish physicist and mathematician, the originator of Maxwell's laws of electromagnetism and electromagnetic waves
麦克白	mai	bai	Macbeth (name); Macbeth, 1606 tragedy by William Shakespeare 莎士比亞|莎士比亚
麦克白夫人	mai	ren	Lady Macbeth
麦克笔	mai	bi	(loanword) marker pen
麦克米兰	mai	lan	McMillan or MacMillan (name); Harold Macmillan (1894-1986), UK conservative politician, prime minister 1957-1963
麦克维	mai	wei	(Timothy) McVeigh
麦克阿瑟	mai	se	General Douglas MacArthur (1880-1964), US commander in Pacific during WW2, sacked in 1951 by President Truman for exceeding orders during the Korean war
麦克风	mai	feng	(loanword) microphone
麦凯恩	mai	en	McCain (name); John McCain (1936-2018), US Republican politician, Senator for Arizona 1987-2018
麦凯斯菱	mai	ling	rhombus of Michaelis (anatomy)
麦卡锡主义	mai	yi	McCarthyism
麦司卡林	mai	lin	(chemistry) (loanword) mescaline
麦哲伦	mai	lun	Magellan (1480-1521), Portuguese explorer
麦唐纳	mai	na	(name) MacDonald or McDonald
麦地那	mai	na	Medina, Saudi Arabia
麦尔维尔	mai	er	(name) Melville; Herman Melville (1819–1891), US novelist, author of Moby Dick 白鯨|白鲸[Bai2 jing1]
麦当劳	mai	lao	McDonald's (fast food company)
麦当劳叔叔	mai	shu	Ronald McDonald
麦当娜	mai	na	Madonna (1958-), US pop singer
麦德林	mai	lin	Medellín, city in Colombia
麦德蒙	mai	meng	McDermott (name)
麦德龙	mai	long	Metro supermarket chain (originally German)
麦提莎	mai	sha	Maltesers (chocolate-covered confectionery brand)
麦氏贼鸥	mai	ou	(bird species of China) South Polar skua (Stercorarius maccormicki)
麦淇淋	mai	lin	(loanword) margarine
麦田怪圈	mai	quan	crop circle
麦盖提	mai	ti	see 麥蓋提縣|麦盖提县[Mai4 ge3 ti2 Xian4]
麦盖提县	mai	xian	Makit, a county in Kashgar City 喀什市[Ka1 shi2 Shi4], Xinjiang
麦积区	mai	qu	Maiji, a district of Tianshui City 天水市[Tian1 shui3 Shi4], Gansu
麦积山石窟	mai	ku	Mt Maiji Caves at Tianshui 天水, Gansu
麦粒肿	mai	zhong	(medicine) stye; hordeolum
麦纳玛	mai	ma	Manama, capital of Bahrain (Tw)
麦纳麦	mai	mai	Manama, capital city of Bahrain
麦肯锡	mai	xi	(name) MacKenzie; McKinsey
麦芽糊精	mai	jing	maltodextrin
麦芽糖	mai	tang	maltose (sweet syrup)
麦芽糖醇	mai	chun	maltitol, a sugar alcohol
麦迪逊	mai	xun	Madison (name); Madison, capital of Wisconsin
麦迪逊广场花园	mai	yuan	Madison Square Garden
麦迪逊花园广场	mai	chang	Madison Square Garden
麦金塔	mai	ta	see 麥金塔電腦|麦金塔电脑[Mai4 jin1 ta3 dian4 nao3]
麦金塔电脑	mai	nao	Macintosh (brand of computers made by Apple); Mac
麦门冬	mai	dong	dwarf lilyturf (Ophiopogon japonicus), whose tuber is used in TCM
麦阿密	mai	mi	variant of 邁阿密|迈阿密[Mai4 a1 mi4]
麦香堡	mai	bao	(Tw) (old) Big Mac hamburger (now referred to in Taiwan as 大麥克|大麦克[Da4 Mai4 ke4])
麸皮面包	fu	bao	whole-wheat bread
麻嗖嗖	ma	sou	to feel cold and numb
麻城市	ma	shi	Macheng, a county-level city in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
麻婆豆腐	ma	fu	mapo tofu; stir-fried beancurd in chili sauce
麻将牌	ma	pai	mahjong tile
麻山区	ma	qu	Mashan, a district of Jixi City 雞西市|鸡西市[Ji1 xi1 Shi4], Heilongjiang
麻木不仁	ma	ren	numbed; insensitive; apathetic
麻栗坡	ma	po	see 麻栗坡縣|麻栗坡县[Ma2 li4 po1 Xian4]
麻栗坡县	ma	xian	Malipo, a county in Wenshan Zhuang and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 文山壯族苗族自治州|文山壮族苗族自治州[Wen2 shan1 Zhuang4 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Yunnan
麻江县	ma	xian	Majiang, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
麻生太郎	ma	lang	ASŌ Tarō (1940-), Japanese entrepreneur and LDP politician, prime minister from 2008
麻痹大意	ma	yi	unwary; negligent
麻省理工学院	ma	yuan	Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT)
麻章区	ma	qu	Mazhang, a district of Zhanjiang City 湛江市[Zhan4 jiang1 Shi4], Guangdong
麻腮风	ma	feng	measles, mumps and rubella (MMR) (abbr. for 麻疹[ma2 zhen3] + 流行性腮腺炎[liu2 xing2 xing4 sai1 xian4 yan2] + 風疹|风疹[feng1 zhen3])
麻花辫	ma	bian	braided pigtail
麻辣烫	ma	tang	malatang (a Sichuan-style spicy soup dish)
麻醉剂	ma	ji	an anesthetic; (fig.) a narcotic
麻醉学	ma	xue	anesthesiology
麻醉学者	ma	zhe	anaesthesiologist
麻醉师	ma	shi	anaesthetist
麻醉药	ma	yao	anesthetic; narcotic
麻醉药品	ma	pin	narcotic
麻阳县	ma	xian	see 麻陽苗族自治縣|麻阳苗族自治县[Ma2 yang2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
麻阳苗族自治县	ma	xian	Mayang Miao Autonomous County, in Huaihua City 懷化市|怀化市[Huai2 hua4 Shi4], Hunan
麻雀虽小五脏俱全	ma	quan	the sparrow may be small but all its vital organs are there (idiom); small but complete in every detail
麻风病	ma	bing	leprosy; Hansen's disease
麻麻亮	ma	liang	(dialect) to begin to dawn; to be just getting light
麻黄碱	ma	jian	ephedrine
麻黄素	ma	su	ephedrine
黄不溜秋	huang	qiu	yellowish; dirty yellow
黄以静	huang	jing	Wong Yee Ching or Flossie Wong-Staal (1946-2020) Hong Kong American virologist, joint discoverer of the HIV AIDS virus
黄体期	huang	qi	luteal phase (period in the menstrual cycle when an embryo can implant in the womb)
黄体酮	huang	tong	progesterone
黄光裕	huang	yu	Huang Guangyu (1969-), PRC entrepreneur and millionaire, founder of GOME Electrical 國美電器|国美电器[Guo2 mei3 Dian4 qi4]
黄克强	huang	qiang	pseudonym of Huang Xing 黃興|黄兴[Huang2 Xing1], one of the heroes of the 1911 Xinhai Revolution 辛亥革命[Xin1 hai4 Ge2 ming4]
黄冈市	huang	shi	Huanggang, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
黄冠啄木鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) lesser yellownape (Picus chlorolophus)
黄包车	huang	che	rickshaw
黄南州	huang	zhou	see 黃南藏族自治州|黄南藏族自治州[Huang2 nan2 Zang4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
黄南藏族自治州	huang	zhou	Huangnan Tibetan Autonomous Prefecture, in Qinghai Province 青海省[Qing1 hai3 Sheng3]
黄原胶	huang	jiao	xanthan; xanthanate gum (polysaccharide food additive used as a thickener)
黄原酸盐	huang	yan	xanthate
黄喉噪鹛	huang	mei	(bird species of China) yellow-throated laughingthrush (Pterorhinus galbanus)
黄喉蜂虎	huang	hu	(bird species of China) European bee-eater (Merops apiaster)
黄喉雀鹛	huang	mei	(bird species of China) yellow-throated fulvetta (Schoeniparus cinereus)
黄喉鹀	huang	wu	(bird species of China) yellow-throated bunting (Emberiza elegans)
黄嘌呤	huang	ling	xanthine
黄嘴山鸦	huang	ya	(bird species of China) alpine chough (Pyrrhocorax graculus)
黄嘴朱顶雀	huang	que	(bird species of China) twite (Linaria flavirostris)
黄嘴栗啄木鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) bay woodpecker (Blythipicus pyrrhotis)
黄嘴河燕鸥	huang	ou	(bird species of China) river tern (Sterna aurantia)
黄嘴潜鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) yellow-billed loon (Gavia adamsii)
黄嘴白鹭	huang	lu	(bird species of China) Chinese egret (Egretta eulophotes)
黄嘴蓝鹊	huang	que	(bird species of China) yellow-billed blue magpie (Urocissa flavirostris)
黄嘴角鸮	huang	xiao	(bird species of China) mountain scops owl (Otus spilocephalus)
黄土不露天	huang	tian	a slogan used in reference to a project to improve greenery in some parts of Northern China
黄土地貌	huang	mao	loess landform
黄土高原	huang	yuan	Loess Plateau of northwest China
黄埔军校	huang	xiao	Whampoa Military Academy
黄埔区	huang	qu	Huangpu, a district of Guangzhou City 廣州市|广州市[Guang3 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
黄大仙	huang	xian	see 黃鼬|黄鼬[huang2 you4]
黄头鹡鸰	huang	ling	(bird species of China) citrine wagtail (Motacilla citreola)
黄宗羲	huang	xi	Huang Zongxi (1610-1695), scholar and writer of the Ming-Qing transition
黄宾虹	huang	hong	Huang Binhong (1865-1955), art historian and literati painter
黄富平	huang	ping	pen name of Deng Xiaoping during his 1992 southern tour
黄山区	huang	qu	Huangshan, a district of Huangshan City 黃山市|黄山市[Huang2 shan1 Shi4], Anhui
黄山市	huang	shi	Huangshan, prefecture-level city in Anhui Province 安徽省[An1 hui1 Sheng3]
黄岛区	huang	qu	Huangdao, a district of Qingdao City 青島市|青岛市[Qing1 dao3 Shi4], Shandong
黄岩区	huang	qu	Huangyan, a district of Taizhou City 台州市[Tai1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
黄岩岛	huang	dao	Huangyan Island (in the South China Sea)
黄州区	huang	qu	Huangzhou, a district of Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
黄巢之乱	huang	luan	late Tang peasant uprising 875-884 led by Huang Chao
黄巢起义	huang	yi	Huang Chao peasant uprising 875-884 in late Tang, led by Huang Chao
黄巾之乱	huang	luan	the Yellow Turbans Peasant Uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黄巾军	huang	jun	the army of Yellow Turbans, a peasant uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黄巾民变	huang	bian	the Yellow Turbans Peasant Uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黄巾起义	huang	yi	Yellow Turbans Peasant Uprising at the end of later Han (from 184)
黄帝八十一难经	huang	jing	The Yellow Emperor's Classic of Eighty-one Difficulties, medical text, c. 1st century AD
黄帝内经	huang	jing	The Yellow Emperor's Internal Canon, medical text c. 300 BC
黄帝族	huang	zu	tribes under the Yellow Emperor
黄平县	huang	xian	Huangping, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
黄庭坚	huang	jian	Huang Tingjian (1045–1105), Song poet and calligrapher
黄庭经	huang	jing	Huangting Jing, one of the primary scriptures of Daoism
黄建南	huang	nan	John Huang (1945-), Democratic Party fundraiser
黄昏恋	huang	lian	fig. romantic relationship between an elderly couple; falling in love in the autumn of one's life
黄晶果	huang	guo	abiu (Pouteria caimito)
黄曲霉	huang	mei	Aspergillus flavus (fungus typically found on crops)
黄曲霉毒素	huang	su	aflatoxin
黄曲霉菌	huang	jun	Aspergillus flavus (fungus typically found on crops)
黄果树大瀑布	huang	bu	Huangguoshu falls, Anshun 安順|安顺[An1 shun4], Guizhou
黄果树瀑布	huang	bu	Huangguoshu waterfalls, Anshun 安順|安顺[An1 shun4], Guizhou
黄柳霜	huang	shuang	Anna May Wong (1905-1961), Chinese American Hollywood actress
黄梅县	huang	xian	Huangmei, a county in Huanggang City 黃岡市|黄冈市[Huang2 gang1 Shi4], Hubei
黄梅季	huang	ji	East Asian rainy season (in late spring and early summer)
黄梅戏	huang	xi	Huangmei opera (local opera of Anhui)
黄段子	huang	zi	dirty joke
黄毛丫头	huang	tou	silly little girl
黄水晶	huang	jing	citrine (orange or yellow quartz SiO2 as a semiprecious stone)
黄河大合唱	huang	chang	Yellow River Cantata (1939) by Xian Xinghai 冼星海[Xian3 Xing1 hai3]
黄河流域	huang	yu	the Yellow River basin
黄泛区	huang	qu	Huang He Inundated Area, the area flooded in 1938 when dikes along the Yellow River were destroyed in an attempt to halt the advance of Japanese troops; (historically) Huang He floodable area
黄浦区	huang	qu	Huangpu, the most central of Shanghai's districts
黄浦江	huang	jiang	Huangpu River, major river flowing through Shanghai, dividing the city into Puxi 浦西[Pu3 xi1] (west of the river) and Pudong 浦東|浦东[Pu3 dong1] (east of the river)
黄海北道	huang	dao	North Hwanghae Province of west North Korea
黄海南道	huang	dao	South Hwanghae Province of west North Korea
黄海道	huang	dao	former Hwanghae Province of northwest Korea, divided into North and South Hwanghae Province of North Korea in 1954
黄澄澄	huang	deng	glistening yellow; golden
黄热病	huang	bing	yellow fever
黄热病毒	huang	du	yellow fever virus
黄爪隼	huang	sun	(bird species of China) lesser kestrel (Falco naumanni)
黄父鬼	huang	gui	Huang Fugui, ghost of legends who provided Liu Juanzi with his magical recipes 劉涓子鬼遺方|刘涓子鬼遗方
黄牛票	huang	piao	scalped tickets
黄疸病	huang	bing	jaundice
黄痣薮鹛	huang	mei	(bird species of China) Steere's liocichla (Liocichla steerii)
黄白交点	huang	dian	ecliptic line; intersection of the ecliptic with the moon's orbit plane
黄眉姬鹟	huang	weng	(bird species of China) narcissus flycatcher (Ficedula narcissina)
黄眉林雀	huang	que	(bird species of China) yellow-browed tit (Sylviparus modestus)
黄眉柳莺	huang	ying	(bird species of China) yellow-browed warbler (Phylloscopus inornatus)
黄眉鹀	huang	wu	(bird species of China) yellow-browed bunting (Emberiza chrysophrys)
黄石公	huang	gong	Huang Shigong, also known as Xia Huanggong 夏黃公|夏黄公[Xia4 Huang2 gong1] (dates of birth and death uncertain), Daoist hermit of the Qin Dynasty 秦代[Qin2 dai4] and purported author
黄石公三略	huang	lve	"Three Strategies of Huang Shigong", one of the Seven Military Classics of ancient China
黄石市	huang	shi	Huangshi, prefecture-level city in Hubei Province 湖北省[Hu2 bei3 Sheng3]
黄石港	huang	gang	see 黃石港區|黄石港区[Huang2 shi2 gang3 Qu1]
黄石港区	huang	qu	Huangshigang, a district of Huangshi City 黃石市|黄石市[Huang2 shi2 Shi4], Hubei
黄秋葵	huang	kui	okra (Abelmoschus esculentus)
黄种人	huang	ren	person traditionally classified as belonging to the Mongoloid race, including East Asians, the Inuit and Native Americans
黄粉虫	huang	chong	mealworm (Tenebrio molitor)
黄粱一梦	huang	meng	see 黃粱夢|黄粱梦[huang2 liang2 meng4]
黄粱梦	huang	meng	dream of golden millet; fig. illusions of wealth and glory; pipe dream
黄粱美梦	huang	meng	dream of golden millet; fig. illusions of wealth and power; pipe dream
黄纹拟啄木鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) green-eared barbet (Psilopogon faiostrictus)
黄绿色	huang	se	yellow green
黄绿鹎	huang	bei	(bird species of China) flavescent bulbul (Pycnonotus flavescens)
黄肛啄花鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) yellow-vented flowerpecker (Dicaeum chrysorrheum)
黄胸柳莺	huang	ying	(bird species of China) yellow-vented warbler (Phylloscopus cantator)
黄胸织雀	huang	que	(bird species of China) baya weaver (Ploceus philippinus)
黄胸鹀	huang	wu	(bird species of China) yellow-breasted bunting (Emberiza aureola)
黄脚三趾鹑	huang	chun	(bird species of China) yellow-legged buttonquail (Turnix tanki)
黄脚绿鸠	huang	jiu	(bird species of China) yellow-footed green pigeon (Treron phoenicopterus)
黄脚银鸥	huang	ou	(bird species of China) Caspian gull (Larus cachinnans)
黄脸婆	huang	po	faded old woman
黄腰太阳鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) crimson sunbird (Aethopyga siparaja)
黄腰柳莺	huang	ying	(bird species of China) Pallas's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus proregulus)
黄腹冠鹎	huang	bei	(bird species of China) white-throated bulbul (Alophoixus flaveolus)
黄腹啄花鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied flowerpecker (Dicaeum melanozanthum)
黄腹山雀	huang	que	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied tit (Pardaliparus venustulus)
黄腹扇尾鹟	huang	weng	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied fantail; yellow-bellied fairy fantail (Chelidorhynx hypoxanthus)
黄腹柳莺	huang	ying	(bird species of China) Tickell's leaf warbler (Phylloscopus affinis)
黄腹树莺	huang	ying	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied bush warbler (Horornis acanthizoides)
黄腹花蜜鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) garden sunbird (Cinnyris jugularis)
黄腹角雉	huang	zhi	(bird species of China) Cabot's tragopan (Tragopan caboti)
黄腹鹟莺	huang	ying	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied warbler (Abroscopus superciliaris)
黄腹鹨	huang	liu	(bird species of China) buff-bellied pipit (Anthus rubescens)
黄腹鹪莺	huang	ying	(bird species of China) yellow-bellied prinia (Prinia flaviventris)
黄腿渔鸮	huang	xiao	(bird species of China) tawny fish owl (Ketupa flavipes)
黄臀鹎	huang	bei	(bird species of China) brown-breasted bulbul (Pycnonotus xanthorrhous)
黄色书刊	huang	kan	pornographic books and magazines
黄色炸药	huang	yao	trinitrotoluene (TNT), C6H2(NO2)3CH3
黄花女	huang	nv	maiden; virgin
黄花女儿	huang	er	see 黃花閨女|黄花闺女[huang2 hua1 gui1 nu:3]
黄花姑娘	huang	niang	maiden; virgin girl
黄花岗	huang	gang	Huanghuagang (Chrysanthemum Hill) in Guangzhou, scene of disastrous uprising of 23rd April 1911
黄花岗七十二烈士	huang	shi	the seventy two martyrs of the Huanghuagang uprising of 23rd April 1911
黄花岗起义	huang	yi	Huanghuagang uprising of 23rd April 1911 in Guangzhou, one a long series of unsuccessful uprisings of Sun Yat-sen's revolutionary party
黄花幼女	huang	nv	maiden; virgin
黄花梨木	huang	mu	yellow rosewood
黄花菜	huang	cai	citron daylily (Hemerocallis citrina Baroni); golden needles (its edible flower)
黄花菜都凉了	huang	le	lit. the dishes are cold (idiom); fig. to arrive late; to take one's sweet time
黄花闺女	huang	nv	maiden; virgin
黄花鱼	huang	yu	yellow croaker (fish); corvina
黄苇鳽	huang	yan	(bird species of China) yellow bittern (Ixobrychus sinensis)
黄袍加身	huang	shen	lit. to take the yellow gown (idiom); fig. to be made emperor; to take the crown
黄褐斑	huang	ban	chloasma; melasma
黄褐色	huang	se	tan (color); tawny
黄貂鱼	huang	yu	stingray
黄赤色	huang	se	golden colored; yellow red
黄道十二宫	huang	gong	see 十二宮|十二宫[shi2 er4 gong1]
黄道吉日	huang	ri	(idiom) auspicious day (for a wedding, ceremony etc)
黄遵宪	huang	xian	Huang Zunxian (1848-1905), Qing dynasty poet and diplomat, author of A Record of Japan 日本國誌|日本国志[Ri4 ben3 Guo2 zhi4], an extended analysis of Meiji Japan
黄酮类化合物	huang	wu	flavonoid (chemistry)
黄金分割	huang	ge	golden ratio; golden section
黄金周	huang	zhou	Golden Week, two 7-day national holiday periods
黄金宝	huang	bao	Wong Kam-po (1973-), Hong Kong champion cyclist
黄金屋	huang	wu	lit. house made of gold; fig. luxurious residence
黄金时代	huang	dai	golden age
黄金时段	huang	duan	prime time
黄金果	huang	guo	abiu (Pouteria caimito)
黄金档	huang	dang	prime time
黄金海岸	huang	an	name of various places including Gold Coast (Australian city), Gold Coast (former British colony in Africa) and Costa Daurada (area on the coast of Catalonia, Spain)
黄金辉	huang	hui	Wee Kim Wee (1915-2005), president of Singapore (1985-1993)
黄钟毁弃瓦釜雷鸣	huang	ming	lit. earthern pots make more noise than classical bells; good men are discarded in favor of bombastic ones (idiom)
黄铁矿	huang	kuang	pyrite
黄长烨	huang	ye	Hwang Jang-yop (1923-2010), North Korean politician known for defecting to South Korea
黄陂区	huang	qu	Huangpi, a district of Wuhan City 武漢市|武汉市[Wu3 han4 Shi4], Hubei
黄陵县	huang	xian	Huangling, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
黄颈凤鹛	huang	mei	(bird species of China) whiskered yuhina (Yuhina flavicollis)
黄颈啄木鸟	huang	niao	(bird species of China) Darjeeling woodpecker (Dendrocopos darjellensis)
黄颈拟蜡嘴雀	huang	que	(bird species of China) collared grosbeak (Mycerobas affinis)
黄颊山雀	huang	que	(bird species of China) yellow-cheeked tit (Machlolophus spilonotus)
黄颊麦鸡	huang	ji	(bird species of China) sociable lapwing (Vanellus gregarius)
黄颔蛇	huang	she	adder (zoology)
黄额鸦雀	huang	que	(bird species of China) fulvous parrotbill (Suthora fulvifrons)
黄飞鸿	huang	hong	Wong Fei-hung (1847-1925), martial arts master
黄骅市	huang	shi	Huanghua, a county-level city in Cangzhou City 滄州市|沧州市[Cang1 zhou1 Shi4], Hebei
黄骨髓	huang	sui	yellow bone marrow
黄鱼车	huang	che	lit. croaker car; flatbed tricycle; delivery tricycle
黄鹡鸰	huang	ling	(bird species of China) eastern yellow wagtail (Motacilla tschutschensis)
黄鹤楼	huang	lou	Yellow Crane Tower in Wuhan City, built in 223, burnt down in 1884, rebuilt in 1985; favored place of poet sages, who in legend arrived riding golden cranes; Tang poem by Cui Hao 崔顥|崔颢[Cui1 Hao4], with theme 'the past will never return'
黄鼠狼	huang	lang	see 黃鼬|黄鼬[huang2 you4]
黄鼠狼给鸡拜年	huang	nian	Beware of suspicious folk bearing gifts, they are sure to be ill-intentioned. (idiom)
黄龙县	huang	xian	Huanglong, a county in Yan'an City 延安市[Yan2 an1 Shi4], Shaanxi
黄龙病	huang	bing	huanglongbing, citrus greening disease
黎城县	li	xian	Licheng, a county in Changzhi City 長治市|长治市[Chang2 zhi4 Shi4], Shanxi
黎川县	li	xian	Lichuan, a county in Fuzhou City 撫州市|抚州市[Fu3 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
黎巴嫩	li	nen	Lebanon
黎平县	li	xian	Liping, a county in Qiandongnan Miao and Dong Autonomous Prefecture 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
黎明前的黑暗	li	an	darkness comes before dawn; things can only get better (idiom)
黎明时分	li	fen	daybreak; at the crack of dawn
黎智英	li	ying	Lai Chee-ying, aka Jimmy Lai (1947–), Hong Kong media tycoon, prominent critic of the CCP and supporter of the pro-democracy camp 民主派[Min2 zhu3 pai4]
黎曼几何	li	he	(math.) Riemannian geometry
黏合剂	nian	ji	glue
黏土动画	nian	hua	clay animation; Claymation
黏性力	nian	li	(physics) viscous force
黏扣带	nian	dai	velcro (Tw)
黏果酸浆	nian	jiang	tomatillo (Physalis philadelphica)
黏涎子	nian	zi	saliva; dribble
黏滞性	nian	xing	viscosity
黏着力	nian	li	adhesion; adhesive force
黏着性	nian	xing	(linguistic) agglutinative
黏着语	nian	yu	agglutinative language (e.g. Turkish and Japanese)
黏稠度	nian	du	viscosity
黏答答	nian	da	(unpleasantly) sticky
黏糊糊	nian	hu	sticky
黏胶液	nian	ye	viscose
黏附力	nian	li	adhesive force; adherence; coherence
黑不溜秋	hei	qiu	dark and swarthy
黑乎乎	hei	hu	variant of 黑糊糊[hei1 hu1 hu1]
黑五类	hei	lei	the "five black categories" (Cultural Revolution term), i.e. landlords, rich peasants, counterrevolutionaries, bad elements and rightists
黑体字	hei	zi	bold characters; bold font
黑体辐射	hei	she	black body radiation (in thermodynamics)
黑兀鹫	hei	jiu	(bird species of China) red-headed vulture (Sarcogyps calvus)
黑光灯	hei	deng	a blacklight; an ultraviolet light
黑冠山雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) rufous-vented tit (Periparus rubidiventris)
黑冠椋鸟	hei	niao	(bird species of China) Brahminy starling (Sturnia pagodarum)
黑冠长臂猿	hei	yuan	black crested gibbon (Nomascus nasutus)
黑冠鳽	hei	yan	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
黑冠鹃隼	hei	sun	(bird species of China) black baza (Aviceda leuphotes)
黑冠麻鹭	hei	lu	(bird species of China) Malayan night heron (Gorsachius melanolophus)
黑冠黄鹎	hei	bei	(bird species of China) black-crested bulbul (Rubigula flaviventris)
黑加仑	hei	lun	blackcurrant
黑匣子	hei	zi	(airplane) black box
黑卷尾	hei	wei	(bird species of China) black drongo (Dicrurus macrocercus)
黑历史	hei	shi	dark past
黑压压	hei	ya	see 烏壓壓|乌压压[wu1 ya1 ya1]
黑叉尾海燕	hei	yan	(bird species of China) Swinhoe's storm petrel (Hydrobates monorhis)
黑吃黑	hei	hei	(of a villain) to do the dirty on another villain
黑名单	hei	dan	blacklist
黑呼呼	hei	hu	variant of 黑糊糊[hei1 hu1 hu1]
黑命贵	hei	gui	Black Lives Matter (social movement)
黑咕隆咚	hei	dong	pitch-black; pitch-dark
黑咖啡	hei	fei	black coffee
黑啄木鸟	hei	niao	(bird species of China) black woodpecker (Dryocopus martius)
黑喉噪鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) black-throated laughingthrush (Pterorhinus chinensis)
黑喉山雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) black-bibbed tit (Poecile hypermelaenus)
黑喉山鹪莺	hei	ying	(bird species of China) hill prinia (Prinia superciliaris)
黑喉岩鹨	hei	liu	(bird species of China) black-throated accentor (Prunella atrogularis)
黑喉歌鸲	hei	qu	(bird species of China) blackthroat (Calliope obscura)
黑喉毛角燕	hei	yan	(bird species of China) Nepal house martin (Delichon nipalense)
黑喉潜鸟	hei	niao	(bird species of China) black-throated loon (Gavia arctica)
黑喉红尾鸲	hei	qu	(bird species of China) Hodgson's redstart (Phoenicurus hodgsoni)
黑喉红臀鹎	hei	bei	(bird species of China) red-vented bulbul (Pycnonotus cafer)
黑喉缝叶莺	hei	ying	(bird species of China) dark-necked tailorbird (Orthotomus atrogularis)
黑喉雪雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) Père David's snowfinch (Pyrgilauda davidiana)
黑喉鸦雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) black-throated parrotbill (Suthora nipalensis)
黑嘴松鸡	hei	ji	(bird species of China) black-billed capercaillie (Tetrao urogalloides)
黑嘴端凤头燕鸥	hei	ou	(bird species of China) Chinese crested tern (Thalasseus bernsteini)
黑嘴鸥	hei	ou	(bird species of China) Saunders's gull (Saundersilarus saundersi)
黑塞哥维那	hei	na	Herzegovina
黑天半夜	hei	ye	(idiom) in the middle of the night
黑天鹅	hei	e	black swan
黑天鹅事件	hei	jian	black swan event
黑头噪鸦	hei	ya	(bird species of China) Sichuan jay (Perisoreus internigrans)
黑头奇鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) black-headed sibia (Heterophasia desgodinsi)
黑头文鸟	hei	niao	(bird species of China) chestnut munia (Lonchura atricapilla)
黑头白鹮	hei	huan	(bird species of China) black-headed ibis (Threskiornis melanocephalus)
黑头穗鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) grey-throated babbler (Stachyris nigriceps)
黑头蜡嘴雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) Japanese grosbeak (Eophona personata)
黑头角雉	hei	zhi	(bird species of China) western tragopan (Tragopan melanocephalus)
黑头金翅雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) black-headed greenfinch (Chloris ambigua)
黑头鹀	hei	wu	(bird species of China) black-headed bunting (Emberiza melanocephala)
黑头鹎	hei	bei	(bird species of China) black-headed bulbul (Brachypodius melanocephalos)
黑头黄鹂	hei	li	(bird species of China) black-hooded oriole (Oriolus xanthornus)
黑奴吁天录	hei	lu	Uncle Tom's Cabin, translated and adapted by Lin Shu 林紓|林纾
黑客帝国	hei	guo	The Matrix (1999 movie)
黑客松	hei	song	(loanword) hackathon
黑尾地鸦	hei	ya	(bird species of China) Mongolian ground jay (Podoces hendersoni)
黑尾塍鹬	hei	yu	(bird species of China) black-tailed godwit (Limosa limosa)
黑尾蜡嘴雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) Chinese grosbeak (Eophona migratoria)
黑尾鸥	hei	ou	(bird species of China) black-tailed gull (Larus crassirostris)
黑尿症	hei	zheng	alkaponuria
黑山县	hei	xian	Heishan, a county in Jinzhou City 錦州市|锦州市[Jin3 zhou1 Shi4], Liaoning
黑巧克力	hei	li	dark chocolate
黑心食品	hei	pin	contaminated food product unscrupulously marketed as wholesome
黑忽忽	hei	hu	variant of 黑糊糊[hei1 hu1 hu1]
黑手党	hei	dang	mafia
黑斑蚊	hei	wen	Aedes, a genus of mosquito
黑斑蝗莺	hei	ying	(bird species of China) common grasshopper warbler (Locustella naevia)
黑旋风	hei	feng	Black Whirlwind, nickname of 李逵[Li3 Kui2], known for his fearsome behavior in combat and his dark complexion
黑旗军	hei	jun	Black Flag Army
黑暗时代	hei	dai	Dark Ages
黑暗面	hei	mian	(lit. and fig.) dark side
黑曜岩	hei	yan	obsidian (mining)
黑曜石	hei	shi	obsidian (mining)
黑木耳	hei	er	Auricularia auricula-judae, an edible fungus
黑松露	hei	lu	black truffle
黑板报	hei	bao	blackboard bulletin with short news items written on it (can usually be found in factories, schools etc)
黑枕燕鸥	hei	ou	(bird species of China) black-naped tern (Sterna sumatrana)
黑枕王鹟	hei	weng	(bird species of China) black-naped monarch (Hypothymis azurea)
黑枕黄鹂	hei	li	(bird species of China) black-naped oriole (Oriolus chinensis)
黑林鸽	hei	ge	(bird species of China) black wood pigeon; Japanese wood pigeon (Columba janthina)
黑枯茗	hei	ming	black cumin (Nigella sativa)
黑格尔	hei	er	Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770-1831), German philosopher
黑森林	hei	lin	Black Forest; Schwarzwald
黑森林蛋糕	hei	gao	Black Forest cake
黑森森	hei	sen	dark and forbidding
黑死病	hei	bing	bubonic plague; Black Death
黑比诺	hei	nuo	Pinot noir (grape type)
黑水县	hei	xian	Heishui, a county in Ngawa Tibetan and Qiang Autonomous Prefecture 阿壩藏族羌族自治州|阿坝藏族羌族自治州[A1 ba4 Zang4 zu2 Qiang1 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Sichuan
黑水城	hei	cheng	ruins of Heishui Town of Xixia 西夏[Xi1 Xia4] people, in Ejin Banner 額濟納旗|额济纳旗[E2 ji4 na4 Qi2], Alxa League 阿拉善盟[A1 la1 shan4 Meng2], Inner Mongolia
黑水鸡	hei	ji	(bird species of China) common moorhen (Gallinula chloropus)
黑汗王朝	hei	chao	Karakhan Dynasty of central Asia, 8th-10th century
黑沉沉	hei	chen	pitch-dark
黑河市	hei	shi	Heihe, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
黑泽明	hei	ming	Kurosawa Akira (1910-1998) Japanese movie director
黑洞洞	hei	dong	pitch-dark
黑浮鸥	hei	ou	(bird species of China) black tern (Chlidonias niger)
黑海番鸭	hei	ya	(bird species of China) black scoter (Melanitta americana)
黑漆麻花	hei	hua	pitch-dark; coal black
黑火药	hei	yao	black powder (traditional gunpowder)
黑灯下火	hei	huo	pitch dark; also written 黑燈瞎火|黑灯瞎火[hei1 deng1 xia1 huo3]
黑灯瞎火	hei	huo	pitch dark
黑煤玉	hei	yu	jet
黑猩猩	hei	xing	common chimpanzee
黑琴鸡	hei	ji	(bird species of China) black grouse (Lyrurus tetrix)
黑白不分	hei	fen	can't tell black from white (idiom); unable to distinguish wrong from right
黑白分明	hei	ming	lit. black and white clearly contrasted (idiom); fig. unambiguous; black-and-white; in sharp contrast; to distinguish clearly right from wrong
黑白切	hei	qie	(Tw) heibaiqie, side dish of ingredients selected from a range on display, sliced up and served together on a plate (from Taiwanese 烏白切, Tai-lo pr. [oo-pe̍h-tshiat], where 烏白 means "as one pleases")
黑白无常	hei	chang	(Chinese folk religion) Heibai Wuchang: two deities, one dressed in black and the other in white, responsible for escorting the spirits of the dead to the underworld
黑白电视	hei	shi	black and white TV
黑百灵	hei	ling	(bird species of China) black lark (Melanocorypha yeltoniensis)
黑皮诺	hei	nuo	Pinot noir (grape type)
黑眉拟啄木鸟	hei	niao	(bird species of China) Chinese barbet (Psilopogon faber)
黑眉柳莺	hei	ying	(bird species of China) sulphur-breasted warbler (Phylloscopus ricketti)
黑眉苇莺	hei	ying	(bird species of China) black-browed reed warbler (Acrocephalus bistrigiceps)
黑眉蝮蛇	hei	she	Snake island viper (Gloydius shedaoensis), feeding on migrating birds
黑眉长尾山雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) black-browed bushtit (Aegithalos bonvaloti)
黑眉雀鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) Huet's fulvetta (Alcippe hueti)
黑眉鸦雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) pale-billed parrotbill (Suthora atrosuperciliaris)
黑眼圈	hei	quan	dark circles (under one's eyes); black eye
黑眼珠	hei	zhu	pupil of the eye
黑瞎子	hei	zi	black bear
黑瞎子岛	hei	dao	Bolshoi Ussuriisk Island in the Heilongjiang or Amur river, at mouth of the Ussuri River opposite Khabarovsk; Heixiazi (black blind man) Island
黑短脚鹎	hei	bei	(bird species of China) black bulbul (Hypsipetes leucocephalus)
黑矮星	hei	xing	black dwarf star
黑砖窑	hei	yao	lit. black brick kiln; factories that acquired notoriety in 2007 for slave labor
黑社会	hei	hui	criminal underworld; organized crime syndicate
黑科技	hei	ji	(slang) futuristic technology; cutting-edge technology
黑箱子	hei	zi	black box (aviation), (systems theory)
黑箱操作	hei	zuo	see 暗箱操作[an4 xiang1 cao1 zuo4]
黑籍冤魂	hei	hun	Victims of Opium, novel by Peng Yangou 彭養鷗|彭养鸥[Peng2 Yang3 ou1], published in 1909
黑糊糊	hei	hu	black; dark; dusky
黑素瘤	hei	liu	melanoma
黑线鳕	hei	xue	haddock
黑翅燕鸻	hei	heng	(bird species of China) black-winged pratincole (Glareola nordmanni)
黑翅长脚鹬	hei	yu	(bird species of China) black-winged stilt (Himantopus himantopus)
黑翅雀鹎	hei	bei	(bird species of China) common iora (Aegithina tiphia)
黑翅鸢	hei	yuan	(bird species of China) black-winged kite (Elanus caeruleus)
黑肺病	hei	bing	black lung disease; coal workers' pneumoconiosis
黑背信天翁	hei	weng	(bird species of China) Laysan albatross (Phoebastria immutabilis)
黑背燕尾	hei	wei	(bird species of China) black-backed forktail (Enicurus immaculatus)
黑胡椒	hei	jiao	black pepper
黑胶唱片	hei	pian	vinyl record
黑胸太阳鸟	hei	niao	(bird species of China) black-throated sunbird (Aethopyga saturata)
黑胸山鹪莺	hei	ying	(bird species of China) black-throated prinia (Prinia atrogularis)
黑胸歌鸲	hei	qu	(bird species of China) Himalayan rubythroat (Calliope pectoralis)
黑胸鸫	hei	dong	(bird species of China) black-breasted thrush (Turdus dissimilis)
黑胸麻雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) Spanish sparrow (Passer hispaniolensis)
黑脚信天翁	hei	weng	(bird species of China) black-footed albatross (Phoebastria nigripes)
黑脸噪鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) masked laughingthrush (Pterorhinus perspicillatus)
黑脸琵鹭	hei	lu	(bird species of China) black-faced spoonbill (Platalea minor)
黑脸鹟莺	hei	ying	(bird species of China) black-faced warbler (Abroscopus schisticeps)
黑腰滨鹬	hei	yu	(bird species of China) Baird's sandpiper (Calidris bairdii)
黑腹沙鸡	hei	ji	(bird species of China) black-bellied sandgrouse (Pterocles orientalis)
黑腹滨鹬	hei	yu	(bird species of China) dunlin (Calidris alpina)
黑腹燕鸥	hei	ou	(bird species of China) black-bellied tern (Sterna acuticauda)
黑腹蛇鹈	hei	ti	(bird species of China) oriental darter (Anhinga melanogaster)
黑色幽默	hei	mo	black humor
黑色星期五	hei	wu	Black Friday
黑色素	hei	su	black pigment; melanin
黑色素瘤	hei	liu	melanoma
黑色金属	hei	shu	ferrous metals (i.e. iron, chromium, manganese and alloys containing them)
黑茶藨子	hei	zi	blackcurrant; cassis
黑落德	hei	de	Herod (biblical King)
黑虎拳	hei	quan	Hei Hu Quan - "Black Tiger Fist" - Martial Art
黑道家族	hei	zu	The Sopranos (US TV series)
黑醋栗	hei	li	blackcurrant
黑长尾雉	hei	zhi	(bird species of China) mikado pheasant (Syrmaticus mikado)
黑顶噪鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) black-faced laughingthrush (Trochalopteron affine)
黑顶奇鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) rufous sibia (Heterophasia capistrata)
黑顶蛙口鸱	hei	chi	(bird species of China) Hodgson's frogmouth (Batrachostomus hodgsoni)
黑顶麻雀	hei	que	(bird species of China) saxaul sparrow (Passer ammodendri)
黑领噪鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) greater necklaced laughingthrush (Pterorhinus pectoralis)
黑领椋鸟	hei	niao	(bird species of China) black-collared starling (Gracupica nigricollis)
黑颈长尾雉	hei	zhi	(bird species of China) Mrs. Hume's pheasant (Syrmaticus humiae)
黑颈鸫	hei	dong	(bird species of China) black-throated thrush (Turdus atrogularis)
黑颈鸬鹚	hei	ci	(bird species of China) little cormorant (Microcarbo niger)
黑颈鹤	hei	he	(bird species of China) black-necked crane (Grus nigricollis)
黑颏果鸠	hei	jiu	(bird species of China) black-chinned fruit dove (Ptilinopus leclancheri)
黑颏穗鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) black-chinned babbler (Cyanoderma pyrrhops)
黑额伯劳	hei	lao	(bird species of China) lesser grey shrike (Lanius minor)
黑额凤鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) black-chinned yuhina (Yuhina nigrimenta)
黑额山噪鹛	hei	mei	(bird species of China) snowy-cheeked laughingthrush (Ianthocincla sukatschewi)
黑额树鹊	hei	que	(bird species of China) collared treepie (Dendrocitta frontalis)
黑魆魆	hei	xu	dim; dark; murky; black
黑魖魖	hei	xu	pitch-black; dark
黑黢黢	hei	qu	pitch-black; pitch-dark
黑龙江	hei	jiang	see 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]; Heilong River or Amur River, forming the border between northeast China and Russia
黑龙江河	hei	he	Heilongjiang River; Amur River (the border between northeast China and Russia)
黑龙江省	hei	sheng	Heilongjiang Province, capital Harbin 哈爾濱市|哈尔滨市[Ha1 er3 bin1 Shi4] (short name 黑[Hei1])
黔东南	qian	nan	see 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
黔东南州	qian	zhou	see 黔東南苗族侗族自治州|黔东南苗族侗族自治州[Qian2 dong1 nan2 Miao2 zu2 Dong4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
黔南州	qian	zhou	see 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
黔江区	qian	qu	Qianjiang, a district of Chongqing 重慶|重庆[Chong2 qing4]
黔西南	qian	nan	see 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
黔西南州	qian	zhou	see 黔西南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 xi1 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1]
黔西市	qian	shi	Qianxi, a county-level city in Bijie City 畢節市|毕节市[Bi4 jie2 Shi4], Guizhou
黔驴技穷	qian	qiong	to exhaust one's limited abilities (idiom)
默不作声	mo	sheng	to keep silent
默克尔	mo	er	Angela Merkel (1954-), German CDU politician, chancellor from 2005
默多克	mo	ke	Murdoch (name); Rupert Murdoch (1931-), media magnate
默拉皮	mo	pi	Merapi (volcano on Java)
默罕默德	mo	de	see 穆罕默德[Mu4 han3 mo4 de2]
默西亚	mo	ya	the Messiah
默西河	mo	he	Mersey River, through Liverpool
默默无闻	mo	wen	(idiom) unknown; unrenowned
黛安娜	dai	na	Diana (goddess in Roman mythology)
黛绮莉	dai	li	(loanword) daiquiri
黯然失色	an	se	to lose one's splendor; to lose luster; to be eclipsed
黯然神伤	an	shang	(idiom) depressed; dispirited
黯然销魂	an	hun	overwhelming sadness (idiom); sorrow at parting
鼎力相助	ding	zhu	We are most grateful for your valuable assistance.
鼎城区	ding	qu	Dingcheng, a district of Changde City 常德市[Chang2 de2 Shi4], Hunan
鼎泰丰	ding	feng	Din Tai Fung, restaurant specializing in dumplings, with stores in many countries
鼎湖区	ding	qu	Dinghu, a district of Zhaoqing City 肇慶市|肇庆市[Zhao4 qing4 Shi4], Guangdong
鼎盛时期	ding	qi	flourishing period; golden age
鼎盛期	ding	qi	golden age; heyday; period of peak prosperity
鼎足之势	ding	shi	competition between three rivals; tripartite confrontation
鼎铛玉石	ding	shi	lit. to use a sacred tripod as cooking pot and jade as ordinary stone (idiom); fig. a waste of precious material; casting pearls before swine
鼎鼎大名	ding	ming	famous; celebrated
鼓吹者	gu	zhe	advocate
鼓山区	gu	qu	Gushan or Kushan district of Kaohsiung city 高雄市[Gao1 xiong2 shi4], south Taiwan
鼓打贝斯	gu	si	drum and bass (music genre)
鼓楼区	gu	qu	Gulou, a district of Nanjing City 南京市[Nan2 jing1 Shi4], Jiangsu; Gulou, a district of Xuzhou City 徐州市[Xu2 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangsu; Gulou, a district of Fuzhou City 福州市[Fu2 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
鼓浪屿	gu	yu	Gulangyu, scenic island off Xiamen 廈門|厦门[Xia4 men2]
鼓点子	gu	zi	drumbeat; drum rhythm; drumming pattern
鼓盆之戚	gu	qi	drumming on a bowl in grief (idiom, refers to Zhuangzi 莊子|庄子[Zhuang1 zi3] grieving for his lost wife); fig. grief for a lost wife
鼓眼睛	gu	jing	protruding eyes
鼓起勇气	gu	qi	to summon one's courage
鼓足勇气	gu	qi	to summon one's courage
鼓风机	gu	ji	bellows; ventilator; air blower
鼓风炉	gu	lu	a blast furnace (in modern times); a draft assisted furnace for smelting metals
鼓鼓囊囊	gu	nang	(idiom) (of a pocket, pouch etc) full and bulging
鼓鼓的	gu	de	bulging
鼠型斑疹伤寒	shu	han	murine typhus
鼠尾草	shu	cao	sage (Salvia officinalis)
鼠得克	shu	ke	difenacoum (anticoagulant and rodenticide)
鼠标器	shu	qi	mouse (computer)
鼠标垫	shu	dian	mouse pad
鼠海豚	shu	tun	porpoise
鼠疫杆菌	shu	jun	Yersinia pestis; the bubonic plage bacillus
鼠目寸光	shu	guang	short-sighted
鼠肚鸡肠	shu	chang	small-minded
鼠蚤型斑疹伤寒	shu	han	murine typhus fever
鼹鼠皮	yan	pi	moleskin
鼻中隔	bi	ge	nasal septum
鼻出血	bi	xue	nosebleed
鼻咽癌	bi	ai	nasopharyngeal carcinoma (NPC)
鼻唇沟	bi	gou	nasolabial fold; smile lines; laugh lines
鼻孔朝天	bi	tian	(lit.) to have one's nose in the air (idiom); (fig.) arrogant; haughty
鼻息肉	bi	rou	nasal polyp
鼻旁窦	bi	dou	paranasal sinus
鼻涕虫	bi	chong	a slug; sb with a runny nose
鼻烟壶	bi	hu	snuff bottle
鼻烟盒	bi	he	snuffbox
鼻牛儿	bi	r	hardened mucus in nostrils
鼻甲骨	bi	gu	turbinate; nasal concha
鼻病毒	bi	du	rhinovirus (common cold virus)
鼻窦炎	bi	yan	sinusitis
鼻针疗法	bi	fa	nose-acupuncture therapy
鼻青眼肿	bi	zhong	a black eye (idiom); serious injury to the face; fig. a setback; a defeat
鼻青脸肿	bi	zhong	a bloody nose and a swollen face; badly battered
鼻韵母	bi	mu	(of Chinese pronunciation) a vowel followed by a nasal consonant
鼻饲法	bi	fa	nasal feeding
鼻黏膜	bi	mo	nasal mucous membrane
鼾声如雷	han	lei	thunderous snoring
齐人之福	qi	fu	lit. the happy fate of the man from Qi (who had a wife and a concubine) (idiom); fig. (ironically) the joy of having several partners; the life of a pasha
齐刷刷	qi	shua	even; uniform
齐大非偶	qi	ou	too rich to be a good match (in marriage) (idiom)
齐大非耦	qi	ou	variant of 齊大非偶|齐大非偶[qi2 da4 fei1 ou3]
齐天大圣	qi	sheng	Great Sage the Equal of Heaven, self-proclaimed title of the Monkey King Sun Wukong 孫悟空|孙悟空[Sun1 Wu4 kong1] in the novel Journey to the West 西遊記|西游记[Xi1 you2 Ji4]
齐头并进	qi	jin	to go forward together (idiom); to undertake simultaneous tasks; going hand in hand
齐头式	qi	shi	treating everyone the same, regardless of individual differences; one-size-fits-all approach; (typesetting) block paragraphs (no indenting, and blank space between each paragraph)
齐宣王	qi	wang	King Xuan of Qi (reigned 342-324 BC)
齐家文化	qi	hua	Qijia neolithic culture, centered around the Gansu Corridor 河西走廊[He2 xi1 Zou3 lang2] c. 2000 BC
齐家治国	qi	guo	to regulate the family and rule the state (idiom)
齐心协力	qi	li	to work with a common purpose (idiom); to make concerted efforts; to pull together; to work as one
齐心合力	qi	li	to work as one (idiom); united in a concerted effort; working hard together
齐打夯儿地	qi	de	in unison and with one voice (dialect)
齐柏林	qi	lin	Zeppelin (name); Graf Ferdinand von Zeppelin (1838-1917), inventor of the Zeppelin dirigible airship
齐柏林飞艇	qi	ting	Zeppelin dirigible airship
齐格菲防线	qi	xian	Siegfried Line, line of German military defenses during WWI and WWII
齐桓公	qi	gong	Duke Huan of Qi (reigned 685-643 BC), one of the Five Hegemons 春秋五霸
齐武成	qi	cheng	Emperor Wucheng of Qi, personal name 高湛[Gao1 Dan1] (537-568), reigned 561-565
齐民要术	qi	shu	Essential skill to benefit the people, sixth century encyclopedia of agricultural knowledge by Jia Sixie 賈思勰|贾思勰[Jia3 Si1 xie2]
齐河县	qi	xian	Qihe, a county in Dezhou City 德州市[De2 zhou1 Shi4], Shandong
齐湣王	qi	wang	King Min of Qi (reigned 323-284 BC)
齐白石	qi	shi	Qi Baishi (1864-1957), famous Chinese painter
齐眉穗儿	qi	r	bangs (hair)
齐纳二极管	qi	guan	Zener diode
齐聚一堂	qi	tang	to get together all at once
齐齐哈尔	qi	er	see 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4]
齐齐哈尔市	qi	shi	Qiqihar, prefecture-level city in Heilongjiang Province 黑龍江省|黑龙江省[Hei1 long2 jiang1 Sheng3]
齿列矫正	chi	zheng	orthodontic treatment; orthodontics
齿列矫正器	chi	qi	see 牙齒矯正器|牙齿矫正器[ya2 chi3 jiao3 zheng4 qi4]
齿唇音	chi	yin	see 唇齒音|唇齿音[chun2 chi3 yin1]
齿条千斤顶	chi	ding	rack and pinion jack
齿轮传动	chi	dong	gear drive
齿轮箱	chi	xiang	gearbox
齿轮齿条	chi	tiao	(mechanical engineering) rack and pinion
齿颊生香	chi	xiang	lit. to feel the taste in one's mouth (idiom); fig. to water at the mouth; to drool in anticipation
齿颚矫正学	chi	xue	(Tw) orthodontics
齿龈炎	chi	yan	gingivitis
齿龈音	chi	yin	alveolar, apical, or supradental sound (linguistics)
龇牙咧嘴	zi	zui	(idiom) to make a pained or menacing facial expression; to grimace; to snarl
龇牙裂嘴	zi	zui	see 齜牙咧嘴|龇牙咧嘴[zi1 ya2 lie3 zui3]
龈擦音	yin	yin	alveolar fricative (linguistics)
龈脓肿	yin	zhong	gumboil
龈腭音	yin	yin	alveo-palatal sound (linguistics)
龈颚音	yin	yin	prepalatal sound (linguistics)
龋齿性	qu	xing	caries-inducing
龙争虎斗	long	dou	lit. the dragon wars, the tiger battles (idiom); fierce battle between giants
龙井区	long	qu	Longjing, a district of Taichung 臺中市|台中市[Tai2 zhong1 Shi4], Taiwan
龙井市	long	shi	Longjing, a county-level city in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture 延邊朝鮮族自治州|延边朝鲜族自治州[Yan2 bian1 Chao2 xian3 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Jilin
龙井茶	long	cha	Longjing tea, aka Dragon Well tea, a high-quality pan-roasted green tea from the area of Longjing Village in Hangzhou, Zhejiang
龙亭区	long	qu	Longting, a district of Kaifeng City 開封市|开封市[Kai1 feng1 Shi4], Henan
龙凤区	long	qu	Longfeng, a district of Daqing City 大慶市|大庆市[Da4 qing4 Shi4], Heilongjiang
龙凤呈祥	long	xiang	the dragon and phoenix are symbols of good fortune (idiom); auspicious; decorated with auspicious symbols such as the dragon and the phoenix
龙凤胎	long	tai	twins of mixed sex
龙利叶	long	ye	Sauropus spatulifolius Beille (shrub of the Euphorbiaceae family)
龙华区	long	qu	Longhua, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong; Longhua, a district of Haikou City 海口市[Hai3 kou3 Shi4], Hainan
龙南市	long	shi	Longnan, a county-level city in Ganzhou City 贛州市|赣州市[Gan4 zhou1 Shi4], Jiangxi
龙卷风	long	feng	tornado; hurricane; twister
龙口夺食	long	shi	to harvest hurriedly before rain comes
龙口市	long	shi	Longkou, a county-level city in Yantai City 煙台市|烟台市[Yan1 tai2 Shi4], Shandong
龙圩区	long	qu	Longxu, a district of Wuzhou City 梧州市[Wu2 zhou1 Shi4], Guangxi
龙城区	long	qu	Longcheng, a district of Chaoyang City 朝陽市|朝阳市[Chao2 yang2 Shi4], Liaoning
龙头企业	long	ye	key enterprises; leading enterprises
龙头老大	long	da	big boss; leader of a group; dominant (position)
龙头股	long	gu	(finance) leading stock; market leader
龙头蛇尾	long	wei	lit. dragon's head, snake's tail (idiom); fig. a strong start but weak finish
龙头铡	long	zha	lever-style guillotine decorated with a dragon's head at the hinged end, used to behead criminals related to the emperor
龙子湖	long	hu	see 龍子湖區|龙子湖区[Long2 zi5 hu2 Qu1]
龙子湖区	long	qu	Longzihu, a district of Bengbu City 蚌埠市[Beng4 bu4 Shi4], Anhui
龙安区	long	qu	Long'an, a district of Anyang City 安陽市|安阳市[An1 yang2 Shi4], Henan
龙安寺	long	si	Ryōanji, temple in northwest Kyōto 京都, Japan with famous rock garden
龙宫贝	long	bei	Rumphius's slit shell (Entemnotrochus rumphii), found in Japan and Taiwan
龙山区	long	qu	Longshan, a district of Liaoyuan City 遼源市|辽源市[Liao2 yuan2 Shi4], Jilin
龙山县	long	xian	Longshan, a county in Xiangxi Tujia and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 湘西土家族苗族自治州[Xiang1 xi1 Tu3 jia1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Hunan
龙山文化	long	hua	Longshan culture; black pottery culture
龙岗区	long	qu	Longgang, a district of Shenzhen City 深圳市[Shen1 zhen4 Shi4], Guangdong
龙岩市	long	shi	Longyan, prefecture-level city in Fujian Province 福建省[Fu2 jian4 Sheng3]
龙川县	long	xian	Longchuan, a county in Heyuan City 河源市[He2 yuan2 Shi4], Guangdong
龙州县	long	xian	Longzhou, a county in Chongzuo City 崇左市[Chong2 zuo3 Shi4], Guangxi
龙形拳	long	quan	Long Xing Quan - "Dragon Fist" - Martial Art
龙抬头	long	tou	the second day of the second lunar month, traditionally observed as the Longtaitou Festival
龙文区	long	qu	Longwen, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
龙树菩萨	long	sa	Nagarjuna (Nagarjuna Bodhisattva)
龙江县	long	xian	Longjiang, a county in Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
龙沙区	long	qu	Longsha, a district of Qiqihar City 齊齊哈爾市|齐齐哈尔市[Qi2 qi2 ha1 er3 Shi4], Heilongjiang
龙泉剑	long	jian	Longquan Sword, legendary ancient Chinese sword of extraordinary craftsmanship
龙泉市	long	shi	Longquan, a county-level city in Lishui City 麗水市|丽水市[Li2 shui3 Shi4], Zhejiang
龙泉驿	long	yi	see 龍泉驛區|龙泉驿区[Long2 quan2 yi4 Qu1]
龙泉驿区	long	qu	Longquanyi, a district of Chengdu City 成都市[Cheng2 du1 Shi4], Sichuan
龙海区	long	qu	Longhai, a district of Zhangzhou City 漳州市[Zhang1 zhou1 Shi4], Fujian
龙涎香	long	xiang	ambergris
龙港区	long	qu	Longgang, a district of Huludao City 葫蘆島市|葫芦岛市[Hu2 lu2 dao3 Shi4], Liaoning
龙港市	long	shi	Longgang, a county-level city in Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
龙游县	long	xian	Longyou, a county in Quzhou City 衢州市[Qu2 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
龙湖区	long	qu	Longhu, a district of Shantou City 汕頭市|汕头市[Shan4 tou2 Shi4], Guangdong
龙湾区	long	qu	Longwan, a district of Wenzhou City 溫州市|温州市[Wen1 zhou1 Shi4], Zhejiang
龙潭区	long	qu	Longtan, a district of Jilin City 吉林市[Ji2 lin2 Shi4], Jilin
龙潭沟	long	gou	Longtan Ravine, scenic area in Xixia county 西峽縣|西峡县[Xi1 xia2 xian4], Nanyang 南陽|南阳[Nan2 yang2], Henan
龙潭虎穴	long	xue	(lit.) dragon's pool and tiger's den (idiom); (fig.) dangerous place; hostile territory
龙生九子	long	zi	lit. the dragon has nine sons (idiom); fig. all kinds of characters; good and bad intermingled; It takes all sorts to make a world.
龙生龙凤生凤	long	feng	lit. dragon births dragon, phoenix births phoenix (idiom); fig. the apple doesn't fall far from the tree
龙的传人	long	ren	Descendants of the Dragon (i.e. Han Chinese)
龙羊峡	long	xia	Longyangxia canyon on the upper reaches of the Yellow River, Gonghe county 共和縣|共和县[Gong4 he2 xian4] in Hainan Tibetan autonomous prefecture, Qinghai
龙肝凤胆	long	dan	rare food; ambrosia (delicacy)
龙胆紫	long	zi	gentian violet C25H30ClN3; crystal violet
龙胜县	long	xian	see 龍勝各族自治縣|龙胜各族自治县[Long2 sheng4 Ge4 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 xian4]
龙胜各族自治县	long	xian	Longsheng Various Nationalities Autonomous County, in Guilin City 桂林市[Gui4 lin2 Shi4], Guangxi
龙腾虎跃	long	yue	lit. dragon soaring and tiger leaping (idiom); fig. prosperous and bustling; vigorous and active
龙舌兰	long	lan	agave (genus of plants); (esp.) Agave americana; agave-based spirit; (esp.) tequila (distilled from blue agave, Agave tequilana)
龙舌兰酒	long	jiu	tequila
龙虎斗	long	dou	fight between powerful contenders
龙蛇混杂	long	za	lit. dragons and snakes mingle (idiom); fig. a mix of good people and scumbags
龙血树	long	shu	dragon tree; Dracaena (botany)
龙里县	long	xian	Longli, a county in Qiannan Buyei and Miao Autonomous Prefecture 黔南布依族苗族自治州[Qian2 nan2 Bu4 yi1 zu2 Miao2 zu2 Zi4 zhi4 zhou1], Guizhou
龙门刨	long	bao	double column surface grinding machine
龙门县	long	xian	Longmen, a county in Huizhou City 惠州市[Hui4 zhou1 Shi4], Guangdong
龙门山	long	shan	Mt Longmen, the northwest boundary of the Sichuan basin, an active geological fault line; Mt Longmen in Shandong; Mt Longmen in Henan
龙门山断层	long	ceng	Longmenshan fault line, a tectonically active thrust fault line at the northwest boundary of the Sichuan basin
龙门架	long	jia	gantry
龙门石窟	long	ku	Longmen Grottoes at Luoyang 洛陽|洛阳[Luo4 yang2], Henan
龙阳君	long	jun	homosexual (positive term)
龙陵县	long	xian	Longling, a county in Baoshan City 保山市[Bao3 shan1 Shi4], Yunnan
龙须糖	long	tang	dragon's beard candy, a Chinese confection made from floured taffy pulled into flossy strands
龙须菜	long	cai	asparagus; (Tw) young shoots of the chayote vine 佛手瓜[fo2 shou3 gua1]
龙须面	long	mian	dragon beard noodles; dragon whisker noodles
龙飞凤舞	long	wu	flamboyant or bold cursive calligraphy (idiom)
龙马潭	long	tan	see 龍馬潭區|龙马潭区[Long2 ma3 tan2 Qu1]
龙马潭区	long	qu	Longmatan, a district of Luzhou City 瀘州市|泸州市[Lu2 zhou1 Shi4], Sichuan
龙马精神	long	shen	old but still full of vitality (idiom)
龙驹凤雏	long	chu	brilliant young man; talented young scholar
龙骧虎步	long	bu	(idiom) powerful and imposing demeanor
龙骨瓣	long	ban	(botany) carina; keel (of a papilionaceous flower)
龙骨车	long	che	water wheel
龙龛手鉴	long	jian	Longkan Shoujian, Chinese character dictionary from 997 AD containing 26,430 entries, with radicals placed into 240 rhyme groups and arranged according to the four tones, and the rest of the characters similarly arranged under each radical
龙龛手镜	long	jing	see 龍龕手鑑|龙龛手鉴[Long2 kan1 Shou3 jian4]
龚古尔	gong	er	Goncourt (name)
龚自珍	gong	zhen	Gong Zizhen (1792-1841), Chinese man of letters, calligrapher and poet
龟儿子	gui	zi	(coll.) bastard; son of a bitch
龟壳花	gui	hua	Formosan pit viper (Protobothrops mucrosquamatus)
龟孙子	gui	zi	(coll.) son of a bitch; bastard
龟尾市	gui	shi	Gumi, city in North Gyeongsang Province, South Korea
龟甲万	gui	wan	Kikkoman, Japanese soy sauce and seasoning brand
龟甲宝螺	gui	luo	Mauritius cowry; Mauritia mauritiana
龟笑鳖无尾	gui	wei	lit. a tortoise laughing at a soft-shelled turtle for having no tail (idiom); fig. the pot calling the kettle black
龟背竹	gui	zhu	split-leaf philodendron; Monstera deliciosa
龟苓膏	gui	gao	turtle jelly, medicine made with powdered turtle shell and herbs; a similar product made without turtle shell and consumed as a dessert
